 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Core Financial Modeling , Module 1 : Financial Modeling Overview and 
Core Concepts  
Table of Contents:  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  ................................ ................................ ........................  2 
Key Rule #1: What Does “Financial Modeling” Mean?  ................................ ...................  2 
Key Rule #2: The Time Value of Money  ................................ ................................ ..........  7 
Key Rule #3: Present Value (PV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), and Weighted Average Cost of 
Capital (WACC)  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  12 
Key Rule #4: How to Value Any Company: The Most Important Formula in Finance  .. 22 
Key Rule #5: What Makes Financial Modeling Hard  ................................ .....................  27 
Interview Questions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  29 
The Time Value of Money  ................................ ................................ .............................  29 
PV, NPV, IRR, and WACC  ................................ ................................ ...............................  30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  
This guide introduces you to the key technical topics  that will come up repe atedly in interviews 
and on the job.  
You will probably NOT  receive direct interview questions on these topics – however, you  need 
to understand these concepts to answer other technical questions successfully.  
For example, if you don’t understand the time value of money, you will never understand the 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) analysis and DCF -related questions.  
 
Key Rule #1: What Do es “Financial Modeling” Mean ? 
Imagine that you get into an argument with a friend over a company’s stock price.  
Right now, the company is trading at $150 pe r share. Y ou think it’s worth $200 per share, but 
your friend thinks it’s worth $100 per share . 
You recommend investing in the company, but your friend recommends “shorting” (betting 
against) the company.  
How do you tell who’s correct?  
You create a “financial model” to estimate the company’s value . 
A “financial model” is like an outline for a long essay  or a blueprint for a building: It doesn’t give 
you all the details , but it gives you enough details to make a decision . 
For example, if you create a blueprint for a building, you may not know the color of each wall.  
But if there’s a big problem with the building, such as a foundation that’s too small, the 
blueprint will clue you in . 
A financial model works the same way: it doesn’t tell you everything a company does, but it lets 
you detect opportunities and major problems . 
Going back to that example above, let’s say that you create a model to estimate how much cash 
flow this company will generate in the future.  
You’re doing this to convince your friend that the company is worth $200 per share.  
The company has grown its sales  at 10% per year over the past few years , but for the company 
to be worth $200 per share, your model says that its sales must grow at 30% per year.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Your friend goes through the same exercise and creates his estimates for the company’s future 
sales , profits , and cash flows as well.  
According to his model, for the company to be worth $100 per share, its sales must grow at 5% 
per year.  
So, who’s right?  
The answer is that no one is “right,” but your friend is MORE  LIKELY to be correct . 
That’s because companies tend to grow at slower rates as they get bigger, so a decline from 
10% to 5% growth is more plausible than an increase from 10% to 30% growth.  
However, both your analysis and your friend’s analysis rely on predicting the future , which is 
why no one is “correct .” 
Financial modeling lets you quantify  your views of a company and back up your arguments with 
actual numbers.  
Here are a few examples of how you might use it:  
• Stock Investing:  A pharmaceutical company’s stock price just fell by 50%. Was that 
decline justified, o r did the market overreact? Should you buy the stock now because it’s 
set to rise again?  
 
• Advising on Mergers and Acquisitions:  A large retailer wants to acquire a smaller 
retailer. Will the acquisition improve its financial metrics and make investors happy?  
 
• Acquiring Companies in Leveraged Buyouts:  Investors want to acquire a food & 
beverage company, improve its operations, and sell it again in 5 years. Is this plan a 
good idea? Can they earn the annual returns they’re targeting?  
If you’re an investor , you use financial modeling to  earn money for yourself by making the 
correct investment decisions . 
If you’re an adviser , such as an investment banker, you use financial modeling to advise clients 
on what they  should do.  
For example, should a client buy another company? Sell a division? Go public? Raise debt?  
You never make decisions based SOLELY on a financial model.  
It’s just a part of the p rocess, like DNA evidence or witnesses in a courtroom trial: I t might 
inform  your decision, but it won’t dictate  your decision.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
And just like in a courtroom trial, the process of making an investment decision or advising a 
client is a combination of story -telling, data gathering, and some  calculations and evidence.  
The Steps in the Financial Modeling Process  
There are many types of financial models , but the overall process for building a model looks like 
this:  
• Step 1:  Decide on the Purpose of Your Analysis . 
• Step 2:  Do Some Background Research . 
• Step 3:  Identify the Key Drivers . 
• Step 4:  Gather Data for Other Companies (If Applicable) . 
• Step 5:  Build Your Analysis . 
• Step 6:  Present Your Conclusions . 
This topic will NOT  come up in interviews; it’s here “for your own  information ,” so we won’t 
devote much space to it.  
 
Step 1: Decide on the Purpose of Your Analysis  
For example, are you arguing with your friend over whether a company is worth $100 per share 
or $200 per share?  
If so, valuation  will be most important. You’ll forecast the company’s sales , profits, and cash 
flow in the future, and you’ll use those to estimate its value today.  
On the other hand, if you’re advising a client on an acquisition, then a merger mod el – 
combining one company with another and assessing  the financial impact  – will be most 
important.  
And if you’re at a private equity firm thinking about buying a company and then selling it in the 
future, a leveraged buyout analysis , where you calculate how much you’ll earn each year by 
doing that, is most important.  
Regardless of the analysis , you’ll always need to estimate the company’s future revenue, 
expenses, and cash flows . 
Time Required:  5 minutes to decide  on the model (s) to build.  
 
Step 2: Do Some Background Research  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You start  by reading the company’s interim and annual reports: How much money is it making? 
Is it profitable? Has it become more or less profitable over time?  
Then, you look at the “investor presentations” the company issues, industry research, and 
reports from banks that cover this company.  
If you’re an investor, you might also  speak with management, or interview customers or 
suppliers to get a better idea of what’s happening  on the  ground . 
Time Required:  Varies widely; it could be 1 hour, or it could be days or weeks.  
 
Step 3: Identify the Key Drivers  
Next, you identify the key drivers  for a company based on your research.  
For example, for a retailer, the number of stores it owns, how much it se lls in each store, and 
the costs  per product sold will be key drivers.  
For a food & beverage company, the key drivers might be units sold, average selling price, and 
cost per unit.  
For an airline company, they  might be the number  of flights, passengers per flight, average 
revenue per passenger, and cost per flight.  
For a subscription -based service, they might be the average monthly fee, the number of 
customers, the cancellation rate, and the growth in new customers.  
And f or a phar maceutical company, the key drivers might be the number of patients, the price  
per patient , and the company’s spending on sales & marketing and research & development.  
Time Required:  30-60 minutes. Do NOT  overthink this part.  
 
Step 4: Gather Data for Other Companies (If Applicable)  
If you’re valuing  a company, you’ll need to gather data on other, similar companies (“peer 
companies”) in the market.  
It’s similar to buying a house or car: Y ou have to check what similar items  cost to see if you’re 
getting a good deal or not.  
In other situations, such as advising a client on a n acquisition, you’ll need to gather data on 
similar acquisitions . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In many cases, you won’t spend much time on this step because you just need “rough 
numbers” from similar compa nies.  
It’s far more time -consuming to review those numbers, sift through hundreds of pages, and 
make tiny adjustments – but you only do that in a handful of cases (such as for a “Fairness 
Opinion” in investment banking).  
Time Required:  Varies widely; it could be 1 hour for a quick analysis, or it could take days or 
weeks if you need perfect numbers.  
 
Step 5: Build Your Analysis  
You’ll always  estimate the company’s future revenue , expenses, and cash flow . 
You have to do this because investment decisions are forward -looking:  You decide whether or 
not to invest, expand, or acquire based on what might happen in the future . 
Even when you’re advising a client on an acquisition  or fundraising , you still need estimates for 
the company’s  future revenue , expenses , and cash flow  to present to lenders or investors.  
Beyond that, the work varies widely based on the type of analysis.  
For example, if you’re valuing  a company, you’ll spend a lot of time gathering and processing 
data for peer companies.  
But if you’re advising a client on a deal, you’ll spend more time looking at different scenarios  
for the deal and different prices the client might pay.  
You rarely need a full set of “financial statements”; many analyses include only cash flow 
projections, which are based  on parts  of the financial statements.  
Time Required:  Varies widely; it could be 30 minutes for a quick analysis  or 3 months for a 
complex one. The “average case” i s probably a few days to a week, and in our courses, we focus 
on models that might take several hours up to a week to complete.  
 
Step 6: Present Your Conclusions  
This part is like the closing statement  in a courtroom trial.  
You tie together everything – the numbers, the market analysis, and the “story”  – and make a 
single recommendation.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example:  
• “You should buy this company for $1 billion using your entire cash  balance .” 
 
• “This company’s stock is w orth $100. It’s trading at $50 now, so we should invest in the 
company.”  
 
• “We should acquire this company in a leveraged buyout, pay $500 million for it, and 
plan to sell it again in 4 years.”  
You might make this recommendation in PowerPoint, Word, or verbally , and your audience 
might be the Partners at your firm, senior bankers, your client, or interviewers.  
Time Required:  Varies widely; it could be 5 minutes in an interview, 3 -4 hours in a tak e-home 
case study, or a week on the job.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #2: The Time Value of Money  
Now that you know what “financial modeling” means, it’s time to jump into the numbers.  
The most important concept is that money today is worth MORE than money tomorrow . 
In other words, $100 today is worth more than $100 in 5 years.  
That’s because you could invest that $100 today and end up with more than $100 in 5 years . 
Many people misunderstand this point and think that future money is less valuable because of 
inflation.  
While inflation also makes future money less valuable  today , the REAL  reason is that you could 
invest money today and earn more in the future.  
I saw this point firsthand when I lived in South Korea, which has a “unique” real estate system.  
When you rent an apartment there, there are two options: 전세  (Jeon -se) and 월세  (Wol -se). 
We’ll label t hese choices Options #1 and #2.  
With Option #1, you pay an upfront deposit for 50 -80% of the apartment’s value, but you pay 
no monthly rent, and you get the deposit back at the end.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
With Option #2, you pay an upfront deposit for 5 -10% of the apartment’s value, but you pay 
monthly rent , and you still get that deposit back at the end.  
Let’s use some specific numbers and say that the apartment is worth $200,000  ($200K).  
Here’s what Option #1  looks like: 
• Deposit of $150K (75%  of apartment’s value ). 
• No monthly rent . 
• Get back $150K deposit after 2 years . 
And here’s what Option #2  looks like:  
• Deposit of $10K (5%  of apartment’s value ). 
• Monthly rent of $1K . 
• Get back $10K deposit after 2 years . 
Nearly 99% of people in the country advised me to go with Option #1.  
They argued that “ I wouldn’t lose any money” and “ I would get everything back at the end.”  
In their minds, the options looked like this:  
 
But they were all wrong!  Or at least, not correct in all cases.  
Why?  
1) Because $150K received back in 2 years is worth LESS  than $150K today. Even if we 
receive back “the same amount” in the future, it’s worth less than it is today . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
2) Paying $140K more  for the deposit means that you CANNOT  invest that $140K 
elsewhere and earn something with it. So, t here’s an opportunity cost  associated with a 
higher deposit.  
With Option #2, we pay $ 12,000 in rent per year.  
And w ith Option #1, we pay no rent, but we do pay an extra  $140,000 upfront.  
So, is Option #1 or Option #2 better?  
It depends on how much  you could EARN with that extra $140,000 . 
For example, if your best idea is to put that $140,000 in a savings  account at the bank and earn 
1% interest on it, Option #1 is clearly  better.  
At a 1 % interest rate, you’d earn $1,400 in interest each year. You would lose money  because 
you would pay $12,000 in rent to earn $1,400 in interest, which is a loss of $10,600 per year.  
The diagram below illustrates this : Over 2 years, you lose far less with Option #1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the other hand, if you invest that $140,000 in to something with a higher yield, such as 10 %, 
then Option #2 is better:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At a 10 % yield , you’d earn $14,000 in interest each year, which exceeds the $ 12,000 in annual 
rent you’d pay with  Option #2, for a net gain of $2,000 per year.  
So, in this case, you’d earn  money by paying for monthly rent and investing the extra $140,000 
elsewhere.  
All inve stment decisions boil down to  this analysis : Would you earn MORE with this 
investment than you could earn on similar investments elsewhere? Or would you earn LESS?  
For example, if you  could invest money and earn 5 % on it, something that yields 8 % for the 
same amount of risk is an improvement.  
But if an investment with a similar risk profile yields only 3%, that’s worse because you could 
earn 5 % on your money elsewhere.  
And since money today is worth more than money tomorrow, you must discount  future money 
to its value today, or its “Present V alue,” when you’re analyzing it.  
For example, what is that $150K deposit I receive back in 2 years worth TODAY?  
It depen ds on my opportunity cost: W hat I could earn in similar investments elsewhere.  
If I could earn 10% annually , $150K in 2 years is worth $150K / ((1 + 10%)^2), or $124K, today.  
That’s because $124K * (1 + 10%) = $136K, and $136K * (1 + 10%) = $150K.  
So, if I had $124K today and earned 10% on it each year, I’d end up with $150K in 2 years.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the other hand, if I earned only 1% on it each year, it would be worth $150 K / ((1 + 1%)^2), 
or $147K, today.  
That’s because $147K * (1 + 10%) = $149K, and $149K * (1 + 10%) = $150K.  
This concept is called the Present Value , and it’s linked to how much you earn  on an 
investment  and your opportunity cost . 
So, going back to my housing situation in South Korea, what was the correct decision? It 
depends on how much I could have earned with the extra $140,000.  
The “breakeven point” was 8.2% . 
If I could have earned exactly 8.2%, “Money Lost + Opportunity Cost  Factored In” would have 
been $24,000 – the same  as my total rent over 2 years.  
I might have reviewed my investment ideas and decided  like this:  
• Realistic Chance of Earning More Than 8.2% Elsewhere:  It would make more sense to 
choose Option #2 an d pay $12,000 in rent per year. I coul d earn more than $12,000 per 
year by investing the extra $140,000.  
 
• No Realistic Chance of Earning More Than 8.2%  Elsewhere:  It would make more sense 
to choose Option #1. I could not earn more than $12,000 per year with the extra 
$140,000.  
Key Takeaways:  Money today is worth MORE  than money tomorrow. That’s not because of 
inflation, but because you could invest  that money today and earn  something with it.  
The difference between the value of money today and money tomorrow depends on your 
opportunity cost : How much you could earn with other, similar investments . 
If this opportunity cost is low, money today won’t be worth that  much more. But if the 
opportunity cost  is high, money today will be worth a lot more.  
To make investment decisions, you assess the potential returns  – how much you could earn 
with THIS investment – and your opportunity cost  – how much you cou ld earn elsewhere with 
OTHER, similar investments.  
If the potential returns exceed your opportunity cost, you invest ; if not, you don’t . 
Return to Top . 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule #3: Present Value (PV) , Internal Rate of Return (IRR), and Weighted Average Cost of 
Capital (WACC)  
In the section above, we referred to the key terms informally: “Potential returns,” “Opportunity 
cost,” and “Y ields.”  
It’s time to define them more formally  so you can use them to analyze companies.  
Before delving in, remember the main ways to make investment decisions:  
1) You invest when an asset’s Asking P rice is below its Intrinsic V alue . 
 
2) And you also invest when an asset’s Potential Returns exceed your Opportunity C ost. 
These methods are equivalent , which you’ll understand by the end of this section.  
If you know these concepts, you’ll understand every other concept in financial modeling:  
1) Hedge Fund Stock Pitches  – Should you buy a stock? Only if its Asking Price is below its 
Intrinsic V alue . For example, its share price is $100 , but it’s worth $200 per share.  
 
2) Investment Banking Client Recommendations  – If you recommend that a client sell 
itself in an M&A process, you might suggest a target ed price of $400 – $450 million.  You 
believe  the company is worth  $500 million, but you set the price lower than that to 
make it more attractive to acquirers (and to make yourself look good if it sells for more).  
 
3) Private Equity Investment Recommendations  – Should your firm acquire a company in 
a leveraged buyout?  It depends on the potential returns vs. the firm’s targeted returns. 
If the deal might produce an average annual return of 25%, and your target is 20%, the 
answer might be “yes.”  
The list goes on.  
In finance, the “opportunity cost” is called the Discount Rate , and it depends on your other, 
similar investment options.  
The Discount Rate matters because it lets you calculate the Present Value  of an asset or 
company – what its future cash flows are worth today . 
We refer to this Present Value of future cash flows as the “Intrinsic Value” or “Implied Value” of 
the company or asset as well.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
So, if you know the Discount Rate and the future cash flows, you can calculate the Intrinsic 
Value of an asset and compare it to the Asking Price to make an investment decision.  
A higher Discount Rate means that the risk and potential  returns are both higher, and a lower 
Discount Rate means that the risk and potential  returns are both lower.  
For example, if you invest mostly in the stock market, your Discount Rate will be high because 
the average annual return has been 10 -11% for the past 100 years.  
But your risk is also quite high . 
In a given year, the market might fall by 30%  or 50% , even if the long -term average  is a 10 -11% 
annual gain.  
By contrast, if you invest mostly in U.S. government bonds, your Dis count Rate will be much 
lower: P erhaps 2 -3% in a low -interest -rate environment.  
But your risk is also much lower  because the U.S. government has  a very low chance of 
defaulting  on its debt obligations . 
In real life, no invest or invests in just one asset class, and no company uses just one source of 
funding.  
So, you need to look at the weighted average  of these Discount Rates  across all the asset 
classes or funding sources.  
For companies, this “weighted average” is called the Weighted Average Cost of Capital , or 
WACC, and it’s one of the most important metrics for valuing companies.  
You can use an analogy to your personal  finances to understand WACC: W hat percentages of 
your money do you put in a checking account, savings account , bonds , and the stock market?  
Your “Opportunity Cost ” in each category might look like this:  
 
So, what is your “personal  WACC ”? 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It depends on the percentage you allocate into each category. Here’s an example:  
 
In this case, your “personal WACC” is 2.8% because 0.1% * 35.0% + 1.0% * 30.0% + 5.0% * 
20.0% + 10.0% * 15.0% = 2.8%.  
Why not just put everything into the stock market? Because the risk is much higher ! 
If you do that, and there’s a market crash, you might lose 50% of everything you own in a year.  
The market may recover in the future, but that might take a very long time.  
Also, even if there’s no market crash, you’ll need to keep some cash available to pay for living 
expenses such as rent an d food , so it isn’t feasible to put all your money into stocks.  
The concepts are similar for companies, but the options  are different , and they relate more to 
outside funding sources . 
From  the perspective of an investor, the question is: “Where should I allocate my money?”  
But from the perspective of a company, the question is: “How should we raise money  to fund 
operations and expand the business?”  
The two main funding options for companies are Equity  and Debt. 
Equity  means that the company will raise money by selling stock to investors. In exchange, each 
investor will own a small percentage of the company.  
Debt  means that the company will raise money by borrowing it from lenders . The lenders do 
not own any porti on of the business, but they receive interest payments , and they get their 
entire principal  back in the future.  
For the investor , investing in the stock market is the riskiest method but also produces the 
highest potential returns over the long term.  
And for the company , raising Equity  is almost always the most expensive way to fund its 
operations.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Just as investing in bonds results in lower potential returns for you, raising Debt is also less 
expensive for a company.  
Here’s a simple example of the WACC calculation for a company:  
 
The exact figures depend on the company’s industry, size, and business risk. 
For example, companies in “risky” industries, like biotech, tend to have a higher Cost of Equity 
than similarly -sized companies in mature industries, like manufacturing.  
The risk is higher in biotech, but so are the potential returns.  
Similarly, if the company is less creditworthy, i ts Cost of Debt will be higher.  
Lenders take on more risk by lending the company money, so they demand a h igher interest 
rate in exchange for that risk.  
We cover the calculations for Cost of Equity, Cost of Debt, and WACC in detail in the 
Valuation/DCF lessons and guides, but you often approximate the Cost of Equity by looking at 
the past stock -marke t performance of the company you’re valuing.  
For example, if its historical returns were 8 -10% per year, you might assume something similar 
in the future.  
To approximate the Cost of Debt, you might look at the interest rate the company is paying on 
its Debt  or the rates that similar companies are paying on their Debt.  
Apartments in Korea, WACC, and Present Value  
So, now that you know about Discount Rates, WACC, and measuring returns, how can you 
decide whether or not to invest in an asset or company ? 
You can estimate the Potential R eturns  and compare them to your Discount Rate, or you can 
estimate the Present Value  and compare it to the Asking P rice.  
For example, let’s go back to that apartment in Korea and say that it’s up for sale. The owner 
wants $200K for it, and he expects the tenant to pay $12K in rent per year.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We plan to  hold the apartment for 5 years, collect $12K in rent per year, and then sell it for 
$200K at the end of the period.  
To make a decision , we can project the cash flows  from the investment, discount them to their 
Present Value , and then compare the Present Value to the Asking P rice.  
We also need to know our opportunity cost,  or Discount Rate, which we’ll assume is 2.8% – the 
same as our “personal WACC” above.  
Here’s what it looks like in Excel:  
 
In this case, we’ve used the NPV  function in Excel to calculate the Present Value.  
We could have also calculate d the PV with: $12 / (1 + 2.8%) + $12 / ((1 + 2.8%)^2) + $12 / ((1 + 
2.8%)^3) + $12 / ((1 + 2.8%)^4) + $212 / ((1 + 2.8%)^5).  
That formula produces the same result in this simple case:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Since the Present Value  of these cash  flows exceeds the apartment’s Asking P rice, we should 
buy the apartment.  
But several factors could change our decision : 
1) The Apartment Sale Value Falls  – If the housing market crashes  and the apartment is 
worth only $150K at the end, this decision turns into a “No.”  
 
2) The Apartment Stays Vacant for Some Time  – If it takes too long to find tenants, we 
might  not earn $12K in rent each year, which could also make the decision a “No.”  
 
3) Our Opportunity Cost Changes  – If we find some incredible new opportunity, this 
apartment might not be worth it.  
 
4) The Asking Price Changes  – If the current owner suddenly d ecides to ask for $250 K, this 
would turn into a “No” decision.  
The same factors could change our decision to invest in a company: Its future selling price 
might fall, its cash flows might decline, our opportunity c ost might change, or the owner of the 
company might want more for it.  
But the rules of thumb are simple:  
• Asking Price < Intrinsic Value:  Invest!  
• Asking Price > Intrinsic Value:  Don’t invest!  
 
Method #2 for Making Investment Decisions: The Internal Rate of Return (IRR)  
In addition to comparing an investment’s Present Value and its Asking P rice, you can also 
estimate its Potential R eturns  and compare them to your Opportunity C ost. 
You estimate these “Potential R eturns” by calculating the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) , which 
is a type  of Discount Rate.  
The difference is that you solve for this Discount Rate  – you don’t know it in advance.  
If you have a series of cash flows and a Discount Rate, you can solve for the Present Value.  
And if you have an upfront investment (“Asking Price”) and a series of cash flows, you can solve 
for the IRR.  
You can use Excel’s built -in IRR function to calculate the IRR in this apartment scenario:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
With IRR, you must show that upfront invest ment of $200K as a negative in Year 0 , or the 
function won’t work properly.  
The IRR here is 6.0%, which means that we should  buy this property  since it exceeds our 
opportunity cost of 2.8%:  
 
There are several ways to interpret the IRR:  
Interpretation #1:  If we invested $200K and earned 6% on it each year, compounded annually, 
we'd earn the equivalent of the positive cash flows shown above.  
The IRR is "the effective, compounded interest rate on an investment ."  
Interpretation #2:  IRR is also a way to evaluate the “yield s” of different investments.  
Specifically, will you earn more with this company, project, or investm ent than you will with 
other, similar opportunities ? 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interpretation #3:  The IRR is the Discount Rate at which the Net Present  Value (NPV)  equals $0.  
To calculate the NPV, you take the Present Value and then subtract the upfront investment  
(the “Asking Price”).  
THE “NPV” FUNCTION IN EXCEL DOES NOT ACTUALLY  CALCULATE THE NET PRESENT VALUE.  
THE EXCEL “NPV” FUNCTION CALCULATE S THE PRESENT VALUE  – SO, BE CAREFUL!  
The confusing name means that people often use “NPV” and “PV” interchangeably – so you 
need to look at the calculations to tell what’s going on.  
Here’s how the  concept works in this example:  
 
The NPV is $0 when we discount the cash flows using  the IRR for the Discount Rate:  
 
Why Both Investment Evaluation Methods Are the Same  
We’ve presented these two methods of evaluating investments as different, but they are 
equivalent to each other.  
In other words, if the Asking Price < Present Value, then IRR > WACC; and if Asking Price > 
Present Value, IRR < WACC.  
To understand why,  start with the definition of Net Present Value:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
NPV  = Present Value of Cash Flows Discounted @ WACC – Asking Price  
If NPV is positive, then we invest because PV of Cash Flows @ WACC > Asking Price.  
You also know that the IRR is the Discount Rate at which the NPV = 0.  
0 = NPV = Present Value of Cash Flows @ IRR – Asking Price  
Then, using algebra:  
PV of Cash Flows @ IRR = Asking Price  
We can then line up both formulas as follows:  
x = Present Value of Cash Flows @ WACC – Asking Price  
And x > 0  since we’re assuming the NPV is positive . 
0 = Present Value of Cash Flows @ IRR – Asking Price  
If x > 0, PV of Cash Flows @ WACC  > PV of Cash Flows @ IRR . 
The Asking Price and Cash Flows are constant in both formulas, so the different Discount Rates 
must explain the different values.  
A lower  Discount Rate produces higher  Present Values, so WACC < IRR if x > 0.  
Therefore, if the NPV is positive, then IRR > WACC . 
And if the NPV is negative, then IRR < WACC . 
Using These Concepts in Real Life  
Companies often make decisions based on WACC and IRR at a divisional level . 
For example, let’s say that Sir Richard Branson wants to expand Virgin, his multinational 
conglomerate. He’s considering doing this by launching a shuttle service to Jupiter , or by 
starting a new low -cost airline in Asia . 
WAC C for the entire company is 10 %, but WACC for Virgin Galactic  is 15%, and WACC for Virgin 
Asia is 8 %. 
These figures represent reality: T his scheme to go to Jupiter is much riskier, but  may also offer 
higher potential returns.  
Starting a low -cost airline in Asia is much less risky since it’s already a proven business model, 
but the potential returns are also lower.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Jupiter Fleet will cost £1,000 in upfront investment, produce £100 in annual cash flows,  and 
provide a £1,200 long -term/resale value at the end of 5 years . 
The Virgin Asia Fleet will cost £400 in upfront investment, produce £30 in annual cash flows, 
and provide £450 long -term/resale value at the end of 5 years . 
Based on this information, you calculate the IRR for both opportunities:  
 
The Virgin Galactic opti on produces a higher IRR and beats the WACC for the company as a 
whole, but you should not pursue it because it does not beat the WACC for just Virgin Galactic.  
But since the IRR for Virgin Asia beats the WACC for Virgin Asia, you should  pursue that 
opportunity – even though the IRR is less than WACC for the company as a whole!  
You always compare the project -specific IRR  to the project -specific WACC . 
The figures for the company as a whole don’t matter unless the project relates to the entire 
company.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Takeaways:  It makes sense to invest in a company or asset when:  
1) Its Asking Price is below its Intrinsic V alue ; or 
2) The Potential Returns exceed your Opportunity C ost. 
In finance, the “Opportunity C ost” is called the Discount Rate , and it depends on your other, 
similar investment options and how you’re allocating your money.  
A higher Discount Rate means that the risk and potential returns are both highe r, and a lower 
Discount Rate means that the risk and potential returns are both lower.  
The Discount Rate for companies is called the Weighted Av erage Cost of Capital, or WACC,  
It is based  on the percentage of E quity the company is using times the “cost” of that Equity, 
plus the percentage of D ebt the company is using times the “cost” of that Debt (plus the same 
items for any other capital sources).  
Equity tends to be more expensive than D ebt for the same reason that stock -market 
investments have a higher yield than bond investments over the long term: The risk and 
potential returns are both higher . 
The Net Present  Value equals the Present Value of a series of cash flows minus the upfront 
investment or “Asking Price.”  
You can evaluate the potential returns of an investment  by using the Internal Rate of Return, or 
IRR, function in Excel.  
The IRR is the "the effective compounded interest rate on an investment ”; if the IRR exceeds 
the Discount Rate, it makes sense to invest.  
The IRR is also the Discount Rate at which the NPV of an investment equals $0. If you discount 
all the cash flows using the IRR as the Discount Rate  and add them up , the total will equal the 
Asking Price, making the NPV $0.  
Finally, both methods of evaluating investments are equivalent. If Asking Price < Present Value, 
IRR > WACC; and if Asking Price > Present Value, IRR < WACC.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #4: How to Value Any Company : The Most Important Formula  in Finance  
So, how much is a company worth?  What is its “Intrinsic V alue”?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It’s worth the sum of its discounted cash flows , from now into eternity, discounted at a rate 
that’s appropriate for the company’s size, industry, and mix of Equity and D ebt. 
That “appropriate rate” is the Discount Rate  or the yield  you’re targeting . 
If a company generates $100 in cash flow each year, how much would you pay for it?  
It depends on your targeted yield.  
For example, if your targeted yield is 10%, you would pay $100 / 10 %, or $1,000, for it.  
By paying $1,000 upfront, you ear n $100 per year, which is a 10 % yield on that investment:  
 
On the other hand, if the Discount Rate – your targeted yield – is 20%, then this company is 
worth only $500 to you:  
 
It’s worth less because you have better options.  
You could invest your money in similar opportunities elsewhere and earn 20% per year with 
it, so you’d only be willing to pay a price that represents that same 20% yield here.  
If a company generates higher cash flow, you’d also be willing to pay more for it:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
At this same targeted yield of 10%, you’d be willing to pay $1,500 rather than $1,000 if the 
company’s annual ca sh flow is $150 rather than $100.  
But in real life, no company generates exactly $100 or $150 of cash flow every single year into 
eternity.  
Most c ompanies grow . 
And if there’s growth, you can afford to pay more upfront  and still earn that same 10% yield 
you’re targeting . 
Here’s what it looks like if the company’s cash flows are growing at 3% per year:  
 
With growth factored in, the formula for a company’s value is: 
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate)  
And the Cash Flow Growth Rate must  be less than the Discount Rate.  
The intuition is simple:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
25 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• If the company’s Cash Flow is higher , it’s worth more . 
• If the company’s Cash Flow is lower , it’s worth less . 
 
• If the Discount Rate is higher , the company is  worth less  (you have better options 
elsewhere!).  
• If the Discount Rate is lower , the company is  worth more  (your other options aren’t so 
good!).  
 
• If the company’s Cash Flow  is growing more quickly , it’s worth more  (you’re willing to 
pay more for higher growth !). 
• If the company’s Cash Flow is growing more slowly , it’s worth less . 
This formula  is useful for thinking about valuation at a high level, but it doesn’t quite hold up in 
real life.  
For one thing, companies’ growth rates change over time. A company’s cash flow s might be 
growing at 10% today, but that rate might drop to 3% in 5 -10 years.  
Also, the Discount Rate might change over time , especially for high -growth companies that 
mature and become less risky in the future . 
So, in real life, you typically make “custom” projections for  a company’s cash f lows for the 
first 5 -10 years, and then you use the “Company Value” formula for the far -future period 
after those first 5 -10 years . 
You then discount all those cash flows to their Present Value and add them up to determine 
what the company is worth today . 
For a simple example, imagine a company with $100 in initial annual cash flow, growing at 
10.0% at first a nd declining to 2 .5% growt h by the end of 1 0 years.  
In that initial 10 -year period, the company’s Discount Rate is 10.0%, but after that, its Discount 
Rate declines to 9.0% to reflect lower risk and lower potential returns.  
Also, its cash flows grow at only 2.0% in this p eriod beyond the end of Year 10.  
With those parameters, we might value the company in the following way:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
26 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The company’s Implied Value or Intrinsic Value here is $1,770, which means that we might 
invest if its Asking Price were below $1,770.  
And if its Asking Pr ice were above  $1,770, we would lean against investing.  
The screenshot above  is an example of a “mini” Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) analysis, and we 
cover it in a lot more detail in the DCF -related guides and lessons.  
However, we wanted to present this formula and these concepts early on bec ause they will 
come up repeatedly in this course.  
Key Takeaways:  A company is worth the sum of its discounted cash flows  from now into 
eternity ; you discount those cash  flows at a rate appropriate for the company’s size, industry, 
and business risk.  
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate)  
And the Cash Flow Growth Rate must  be less than the Discount Rate.  
The Discount Rate represents your “targeted yield ” or opportunity cost.  
If your targeted yield is higher, you’re not willing to pay as much  for the company ; if it’s lower, 
you’re willing to pay more.  
If a company’s cash flows are growing more quickly, you’re willing to pay more for it; if the 
company’s cash flows are growing more slowly, you will pay less for it.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
27 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If a company’s cash flows are higher, you  will pay more for it; if they’re lower, you  will pay less . 
For example, if a company genera tes $100 of cash flow per year and never grows, and your 
targeted yield is 10%, then you’d pay $100 / 10%, or $1,000, for it.  
But if the company generates $100 of cash flow per year  and grows at 3% per year, and your 
targeted yield is 10%, then you’d pay $100 / (10% – 3%), or $1,429, for it.  
In real life, this formula doesn’t hold up because companies change  over time.  
So, you us ually assume that a company’s Discount Rate and Cash Flow Growth Rate change 
over the first 5 -10 years and then stabilize after that.  
You discount the company’s cash flows in the first 5 -10 years to Present Value, use the 
“Company Value” formula for the period beyond that, and then discount that “Company Value” 
to Present Value.  
Then, you add them up to determine the company’s Intrinsic Value, which you can compare to 
its Asking Price.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #5: What Makes Financial Modeling Hard  
If financial modeling consists of picking the right Discount R ate, estimating a company’s Cash 
Flow Growth  Rate, and then using a simple formula , why are there huge textbooks and courses 
on the topic?  
Because it’s difficult to come up with reasonable numbers for everything in that formula:  
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate) , where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate.  
Also, this formula only works if a company has stabilized, and its Discount Rate and Cash Flow 
Growth Rate are no longer changing.  
If they are still changing, then you need to create custom projections for the company’s cash 
flows based on your research and analysis.  
Here are a few specific problems that make financial modeling challenging and that explain 
everything else in this course:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
28 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
1) There a re different types of “Cash Flow,” and not everyone agrees on how to calculate 
it. There are also different ways to estimate the Discount Rate and different Discount 
Rates . 
 
2) In real life, you can’t just “assign ” a growth rate of 3% or 5% to a company’s cash flow s. 
You have to forecast its revenue, expenses, and other items, see what growth rates they 
produce , and then extrapolate from there.  
 
3) Companies d o not disclose their “Cash Flow ” in their filings.  You have to calculate it  by 
looking at their annual and interim reports, making adjustments, including some items, 
and excluding other items . 
 
4) There are different ways t o measure “Company Value” because a company is worth 
different amounts depending on which parts  of the company you’re including  and which 
investors  you’re including . Equity Value and Enterprise Value are two common ways to 
measure a company’s value , and they both require significant explanation.  
 
5) Sometimes, you care about other factors  not represented in this formula . For example, 
in a leveraged buyout, you care less about the “Company Value” and more about the 
average annual ized return  you could earn by  acquiring the company and then selling it 
in the future.  If you’re evaluating a com pany’s possible Debt issuance, you care more 
about its ability to repay that Debt than its value.  
These factors explain everything else in this course.  
For example, the Accounting and 3 -Statement Projection Lessons  explain how you “translate” 
a company’s financial statements and accounting metrics into its cash flow.  
The Valuation and DCF  lessons also cover that process , as well as how to estimate the Discount 
Rate and a company’s long -term potential.  
The lessons on Equity Value, Enterprise Value , and Multiples  explain “Company Value ” and the 
different ways to view it.  
Finally, the lessons on other topics, such as M&A deals, leveraged buyouts, and equity and debt 
deals, relate to the “other factors” that are not represented  in this formula . 
Return to Top . 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
29 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
You are not likely to receive direct interview questions on these topics.  
However, they do come up occasionally, which is why we wanted to cover a few sample 
questions here.  
Also, many of the concepts here relate to other technical questions, especially the ones on DCF 
and LBO analysis . 
 
The Time Value of Money  
1. Why is money worth more today than it is next year ? 
Because you could invest that money today and earn something with it by next year . 
 
2. If there were no inflation, would money today still be worth more than money next year?  
Yes, because even with no inflation, you could still invest money today and earn more by next 
year.  
 
3. You’re considering renting an apartment by paying a very high deposit, but no monthly 
rent, or paying a much lower deposit and paying monthly rent.  
How can you decide which option is better?  
You have to look at your opportunity cost:  How much could you earn with the extra money you 
save by paying a lower deposit?  
If you have idea s for high -yielding investments, and you believe you can earn more from them 
than you’d pay in rent, then it makes sense to choose a lower deposit and monthly rent.  
On the other hand, if your best idea is putting the money in a checking account at the bank , 
you’re bet ter off paying the high deposit and skipping monthly rent.  
But to tell for sure, you’d have to run the numbers and compare your estimated investment 
income to the rental expense.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
30 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
4. Your friend has a new real estate investment idea. He pitches it to you and claims it will 
generate 10% interest per year.  
Should you invest in it?  
It depends  on what your other options are  and how the risk of this investment compares to the 
risk of tho se other options.  
For example, if you could earn 12% elsewhere with the same amount of risk, this opportunity 
makes no sense.  
On the other hand, if you could earn only 7% elsewhere with the same amount of risk, this 
opportunity makes a lot more sense.  
Peop le tend to make the wrong investment d ecisions because they focus on the potential 
returns without also considering the risk.  
Return to Top . 
 
PV, NPV, IRR, and WACC  
1. What does the “Discount Rate” mean?  
The Discount Rate represents your opportunity cost  or your “targeted yield.” In other words, if 
you don’t invest in this company or asset, how much could you earn with your money 
elsewhere , in similar companies or assets ? 
The Discount Rate represents both the potential returns  and the risk of other, similar 
opportunities.  
If the Discount Rate is higher, both the potential returns and the risk are higher; the opposite is 
true if the Discount Rate is lower.  
 
2. Why is the  Discount Rate higher for stock -market investments than it is for debt 
investments, such as government bonds ? 
Because the risk and potential returns of stock -market investments are higher.  
Over the long term, you might earn an average of 10-11% per year in the stock market. But in a 
single year, the market might fall by 30% or rise by 40%, so the return each year  varies 
tremendously.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
31 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
With debt, by contrast, you’ll earn a fixed amount of interest every single year with a very high  
certainty.  But it’s also highly unlikely that you’ll earn anything close to 10 -11% each year over 
the long term.  
 
3. What is WACC?  
WACC stands for “Weighted Average Cost of Capital,” and it’s the most common Disc ount Rate 
used to value companies.  
To ca lculate it, you multiply the % E quity in a company’s capital structure  by the “Cost” of that 
Equity, multiply the % D ebt in the company’s capital structure by the “Cost” of that Debt, and 
add them up (and factor in any other sources of capital).  
For exam ple, if a company is using 60% Equity and 40% D ebt, its Cost of Equity is 10%, and its 
Cost of D ebt is 5%, then its WACC is 60% * 10% + 40% * 5% = 8%.  
WACC represents the average annual return you’d expect to earn if you invested in the D ebt 
AND  Equity of a company proportionally and held both of them for the long term.  
NOTE: This is a simplified explanation. There’s a whole lot more to WACC – please see the 
sections and lessons on DCF analysis and valuation for more.  
 
4. You estimate that a company’s WACC is 8.0%. What does that mean?  
It means that if you invested proportionally in both the company’s Equity AND its D ebt, you’d 
expect to earn 8.0% per year from the investment, on average, if you hold it for the long term.  
In a specific year , your returns will vary because the stock market can swing around wildly. But 
WACC represents your long -term , average expected return.  
 
5. How much would you pay for a company that generates $100 of cash flow every single year 
into eternity?  
It depends on your Discount Rate, or “targeted yield.”  
For example, i f your targeted yield is 10%, you’d pay $100 / 10%, or $1,000, for this company.  
But if your targeted yield is 20%, you’d pay only $100 / 20%, or $500, for this company.  
If there’s no growth, the formula is Company Value = Cash Flow / Discount Rate.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
32 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
6. A company generates $200 of cash flow today, and its cash flow is expected to grow at 4% 
per year for the long term.  
You could earn 10% per year by investing in other, similar companies. How much would you 
pay for this company?  
Company Value = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate), where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate.  
So, this one becomes: $200 / (10% – 4%) = $3,333.  
Remember that a higher Discount Rate  makes a company less valuable , and a higher cash flow 
growth rate  makes a company more valuable . 
 
7. What might cause a company’s Present Value (PV) to increase or decrease ? 
A company’s Present Value might increase  if: 
• Its expected future cash flows increase . 
• Its future cash flows are expected to grow at a faster rate . 
• Our “opportunity cost,” or Discount Rate, decreases  because we lose access to certain 
investments.  
A company’s Present Value might decrease  if: 
• Its expected future cash flows decrease . 
• Its future cash flows are expected to grow at a slower rate . 
• Our “opportunity cost,” or Discount Rate, increases  because we gain access to better 
investment opportunities.  
 
8. How do you decide whether or not to invest in a company or asset?  
It makes sense to invest when:  
1) Its Asking Price is below its Intrinsic V alue.  
2) The Potential Returns exceed your Opportunity C ost. 
Of course, you don’t decide based solely  on the numbers. These are just rules of thumb for 
thinking through the decision.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
33 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You would also review the qualitative and market factors and make sure that all of those 
support your decision as well.  
 
9. What does the internal rate of return (IRR) mean?  
The IRR is the “the effective compounded interest rate on an investment .” 
For example, if you invest $1,000 today and end up with  $2,000 after 5 years, the IRR 
represents the interest rate you’d have to earn on that $1,000 , compounded  each year , to get 
$2,000 in 5 years.  
It’s 14.87% in that case, which you can verify with some simple math:  
$1,000 * (1 + 14.87%) = $1,148.7, and then $1,148.7 * (1 + 14.87%) = $1,319.5.  
And then $1,319.5 * (1 + 14.87%) = $1,515.7, and $1,515.7 * (1 + 14.87%) = $1,741.1.  
Finally, $1,741.1 * (1 + 14.87%) = $2,000.  
The IRR also represents the Discount Rate at which the Net Present  Value of an investment 
equals 0.  
 
10. Wait, what’s “Net Present Value”?  
Net Present Value equals the Present Value of an investment, i.e., the sum of its dis counted 
cash flows, minus the “Asking P rice” – what you pay upfront for the investment.  
For example, if the Present Value of a n investment is $1,000 and the Asking P rice is $800, then 
its Net Present  Value is $200.  
 
11. So, how do you use IRR?  
Normally, you calculate IRR and then compare it to the Discount Rate, or WACC, of a project, 
investment, or company.  
If IRR exceeds WACC, it makes sense to invest; if it does not, you should not invest.  
For example, you estimate that a project’s IRR is 12%.  
You could invest in other, similar projects and earn 10%.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
34 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Therefore, it makes sense to invest in this project because the IRR exceeds your opportunity 
cost – what you could earn elsewhere.  
 
12. What impacts the IRR of a project, investment, or company?  
Most of the same factors that impact Present Value: The expected future cash flow and cash 
flow growth rate, for example.  
Your Discount Rate, or opportunity cost, does NOT  impact the IRR because you are solving for 
the Discount Rate when you calculate IRR . 
Other factors t hat influence IRR include the Asking Price of a company or investment and the 
expected selling price of that company or investment.  
 
13. What would make the IRR increase or decrease?  
An investment’s IRR might increase  if: 
• Its expected future cash flows increase . 
• Its future cash flows are expected to grow at a faster rate . 
• Its expected selling price in the future increases . 
• Its “Asking P rice” decreases . 
An investment’s IRR might decrease  if: 
• Its expected future cash flows decrease . 
• Its future cash flows are expected to grow at a slower rate . 
• Its expected selling price in the future decreases . 
• Its “Asking P rice” increases . 
 
14. A company is considering expanding by launching a low -cost airline service in Southeast 
Asia.  
The company’s overall WACC is 11%, but its WACC in this region and industry is 8%. It 
believes the IRR from this expansion project will be ~10%.  
Should it expand into Southeast Asia?  
Yes, because you must compare IRR to WACC on a project or department -specific basis.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
35 of 35 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The WACC of the company as a whole doesn’t matter – what matters is that the IRR in this 
specific region and division  exceeds WACC for this same region and division.  
As always, in real life, you don’t decide just based on the numbers. This question is just a 
simplified example to illustrate the concept.  
 
15. Why is valuation more complex than looking at a company’s cash flow s, cash flow growth 
rate, and an appropriate Discount Rate?  
First off, there are many different types of “cash flow,” and no one can agree on exactly how to 
calculate it. It also takes quite a bit of effort to move from a company’s financial statements to 
its cash flow.  
Also, the Discount Rate is tricky to estimate, it might change over time, and you might use a 
different Discount Rate depending on the type of cash flow.  
It also takes time and effort to estimate a company’s cash flow growth ; to do that, you often 
have to build a more complex financial model.  
Finally, “company value” is not so simple because it depends on which investors and which 
parts of the company you’re including.  
These factors make valuation and financial modeling tricky and time -consuming, and they 
explain everything else in this course . 
Return to Top . 