 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Core Financial Modeling, Module 2 : Accounting and the Three 
Financial Statements  
Table of Contents:  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  ........................................................................................ 2  
Key Rule #1: The Income Statement and Working Capital  ............................................. 2  
Key Rule #2: CapEx, Depreciation, and Long -Term Business Funding  .......................... 16 
Key Rule #3: Operating Leases and Finance Leases  ...................................................... 27 
Key Rule #4: Financial Investments  .............................................................................. 34 
Key Rule #5: Deferred Taxes and Net Operating Losses (NOLs)  ................................... 35 
Key Rule #6: Gains, Losses, Impairments, and Write -Downs  ....................................... 42 
Key Rule #7: Stock -Based Compensation  ..................................................................... 49 
Key Rule #8: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets from M&A Deals  ......................... 53 
Key Rule #9: U.S. GAAP vs. IFRS  .................................................................................... 59 
Key Rule #10: Summary of the Three Financial Statements ......................................... 63 
Key Rule #11: Linking and Projecting the Financial Statements  ................................... 70 
Key Rule #12: Free Cash Flow and the Change in Working Capital  .............................. 79 
Key Rule #13: Key Metrics and Ratios  ........................................................................... 88 
Key Rule #14: How to Answer Accounting Interview Questions  .................................. 93 
Interview Questions  ........................................................................................................ 110 
Conceptual Accounting Questions  .............................................................................. 110 
Single -Step Changes on the Financial Statements  ...................................................... 122 
Multi -Step Changes on the Financial Statements ....................................................... 133 
Working Capital, Free Cash Flow, and Other Metrics and Ratios  ............................... 142 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb 
This guide introduces you to the most common accounting topics  that will come up in 
interviews and on the job. It also summarizes the accounting lessons in our financial modeling 
cours e. 
You are guaranteed to receive questions on accounting , no matter your seniority or the roles 
you’re applying for . 
The most important topics include:  
1. What the three financial stat ements are and why we need them (e.g., How do you 
decide what goes on the Income Statement or Cash Flow Statement?).  
 
2. How to answer interview questions related to the financial statements by walking 
through how they change in response to events (e.g., What happens when Depreciation 
increases by $10?).  
 
3. How to calculate metrics and ratios related to the financial statements, such as Working 
Capital, Free Cash Flow, and ROIC, and what they mean.  
We focus on these  topics in this guide, explain the main points , and then present interview 
questions at the end  so you can test yourself.  
You also need  to review  the accompanying “I nterview Question” Excel model, as that file  will 
make it 10x easier to understand everything.  
We do cover some more advanced topics in this guide, such as Net Operating Losses and the 
IFRS vs. U.S. GAAP treatment of Operating Leases , but the next guide focuses  on these more 
advanced topics.  
 
Key Rule #1: The Income Statement and Working Capital  
Everything in this course  goes back to that formula in the previous guide : 
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate) , Where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate  
This formula is correct in the abstract sense, but the problem is that no company ever lists 
“Cash Flow” explicitly in its public filings or annual reports.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Instead, you need to review the filings and estimate the company’s “Cash Flow” by adding, 
subtracting, and ignoring various line items.  
To understand why you include certain items and ignore others, you need to understand the 
three financial statements . 
A company’s “Cash Flow” could be very, very different from the “Profit” it generates, and the 
three financial statements help us understand that difference.  
Let’s start with a simple example : imagine a company that offe rs online courses and coaching 
(similar to the company whose guide you’re reading).  
You pay for the courses upfront, you gain immediate 
access, and then you have lifetime access after you 
sign up.  
There are no factories or offices, minimal capital is 
required, and we don’t have to order Inventory 
because there are no physical product s. 
If we tracked the sales, expenses, and profits  for this 
business, it might look like the example on the left.  
“Revenue” represents our net sales across all 
segments, and “Cost of Goods Sold” represents 
expenses that can be linked  to individual  units sold 
(such as materials and shipping  for physical 
products , or human labor for services ). 
The Gross Margin tells you how much additional  
profit the company earn s from each additional sale 
before  fixed expenses like employees and rent.  
Operating Expenses include items that can’t  be 
linked  to individual products sold, such as marketing, 
rent, employee salaries, and customer support.  
Operating Income tells you how much the business 
earn s before “side activities ,” interest, and taxes, 
and Net Income gives you the company’s bottom 
line: how much it earns AFTER all expenses and 
taxes.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
To appear on the Income Statement, an item must:  
1) Correspond 100% to the period shown – So, if we deliver a product in Year 2, we can’t 
count the sale as Revenue in Year 1  – even if the customer orders and pays for it in Year 
1. Revenue and expenses are based on the delivery  of products and services.  
 
And if we buy a factory, we can’t list that purchase on the Income Statement because it 
will be useful for many years.  It corresponds to MORE than just this current period.  
 
2) Affect the business income available to common shareholders (Net Income here)  – If 
something does not affect the owners  of the business, it should not appear on the 
Income Statement.  This rule will make more sense once we move into more advanced 
items later in this guide.  
If we funded this business with $1 million  of our own Cash (shown as $1,000 here) , we might 
record the following for the company’s “Assets” (items that will provide some future benefit) 
and its “Liabilities & Equity” (the company’s obligations, or how it paid for its Assets ): 
Each year, Cash will increase by the Net Income.  
On the other side, Equity will also increase by the 
Net Income.  
Many other items could affect Cash and Equity, 
but for a simple business like this one , Net Income 
is the main factor.  
 
Record -keeping is simple: when we sell something, we collect  the cash for it  immediately , and 
when we incur an expense, we pay for it in cash  immediately . 
In this simple case, Net Income  – Profit After Taxes – is the same as “C ash Flow.” 
But in real life, no company is this simple.  Here are a few items that create differences between 
Net Income and Cash Flow : 
 
Accounts Receivable  
Our business does well in its first year, and we still have that initial $1 million of Cash we put in, 
plus the $150 K of Cash we generated in Year 1.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
As Year 2 approaches, we expect our business performance to be about the same as in Year 1.  
A large customer – a Fortune 500 company or university – approaches us and offers to purchase 
$100K in product licenses, but they do not want to pay upfront. 
Instead, we’ll deliver  the courses to this customer, but we will not receive cash payment  from 
them for up to 90 days.  
That’s initially a negative because we don’t get the cash right away  – but we do want to expand 
our business in Year 2, so we agree to it.  
This policy will create a “Receivable” and result in a temporary difference  between Net Income 
and Cash Flow.  
Whenever we deliver  a product or service to a customer, we must record Revenue for it.  
But when we don’t receive the cash payment right away, we increase the “Accounts 
Receivable” line item , within Assets, to reflect that.  
Here’s what it looks like on the financial statements:  
  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Our Net Income increases from $150 K to $225K, but since we did not receive this $100K  in 
CASH, the “Cash Flow Generated” decreases!  
To reflect th e $100K that we’re waiting to collect , we increase the Accounts Receivable  (AR) line 
item. This AR line item counts as an Asset  because it provides a future benefit to us (cash).  
In Step 2 of this process –  when this large customer finally pays  – the Income Statement stays 
the same, but the Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement change as follows:  
 
Now, “Cash Flow Generated” increases from $150 K to $225K  because we’ve finally collected 
the cash from this customer. Accounts Receivable decreases by $100 K, and Cash goes up by 
$100K  to reflect the collection.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For large companies, these types of changes happen constantly  across thousands or millions 
of customer accounts, so the Accounts Receivable balance is always changing.  
And when the AR balance increases or decreases, it creates a difference  between Net Income 
and “Cash Flow Generated .” 
 
Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses  
As Year 2 approaches, we get another idea for business expansion: we decide to hire an online 
marketing agency that will create paid advertising campaigns for us on Google, Facebook, and 
other platforms.  
We’ll pay them $20K for one quarter of their services, but we don’t have to pay upfront.  
Instead, they’ll invoice us, and we’ll have 60 days to pay for these services.  
So, we receive  these services (or products, supplies, etc.), but we will  not pay for them in cash  
for up to 60 days.  
This will create a "Payable"  and result in a temporary difference  between Net Income and Cash 
Flow Generated.  
We record an expense on the Income Statement whenever we receive  a product/service from 
another vendor, but when we don’t pay for it in cash right away, we increase the Accounts 
Payable  line item on the Balance Sheet (or, potentially, Accrued Expenses  – see below).  
NOTE:  Accounts Payable is not always  linked to a line  item  on the Income Statement because it 
depends on the nature of the product/service ordered.  You’ll see examples of this in some of 
the Interview Questions  later on.  
For simplicity, in this case, we assume that Accounts Payable does correspond to an Income 
Statement expense  (Sales & Marketing).  
So, in Step 1, the expense increases, but since we don’t pay for it upfront in cash, “Cash Flow 
Generated” increases : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
“Cash Flow Generated” increases because we haven’t paid for the expense in cash yet, but we 
have received a $5 K tax benefit from it (since $20K  * 25% = $5K ). 
Then, in Step 2, we finally pay the expense in cash, which changes the BS and CFS as follows:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Large companies are constantly recording expenses for products/services  but paying them 
later, which means that Accounts Payable is always changing.  
Accrued Expenses  is similar, but companies tend to use it for regular, recurring expenses that 
lack specific invoices, such as utilities, rent, employee wages, insurance premiums, and so on.  
 
Prepaid Expenses  
Year 2 is still looking quite similar to Year 1, and our business insurance company  decides to 
offer us a deal.  
They’ll give us a discount on insurance premiums if we pay for the entire year upfront, at the 
start of Year 2, rather than making a separate payment each month.  
Insurance for the year normally costs $25K, but if we pay it 100% upfront in cash, we can get a 20% discount and pay only $20K for the entire year.  
So, we pay for this service upfront in cash , but we will not receive the entire service  right away  
– only by the end of the year!  
This will create a " Prepaid Expense ," which will result in a temporary difference  between Net 
Income and Cash Flow Generated. 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This insurance expense normally show s up in General & Administrative, so here’s Step 1:  
 
 
Cash Flow Generated decreases by $20K and is $20K lower than Net Income because of the 
$20K upfront payment.  In Step 2, we receive the service and recognize the expense:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
In this step, the “Prepaid Expenses” line item decreases, and Cash Flow Generated decreases by 
$15K because of this new expense, which we finally pay in cash.  
It’s a $15 K decrease rather than a $20 K decrease because Income Taxes also fall by $5K, saving 
us money.  
 
Deferred Revenue 
Around this time, we get another idea: we’ll launch a new course but ask customers to pay for 
it in advance . 
We’ll then deliver it to customers when it’s ready.  
We think we can pre -sell $50K worth of courses based on our traffic, so we’ll collect that $50K 
upfront in cash  and then deliver the product later. 
This policy will create Deferred Revenue, which will result in a temporary difference  between 
Net Income and Cash Flow Generated.  
Deferred Revenue is a Liability because it’s an obligation  to deliver the product in the future. 
We’ve already  collected the cash, so we get no future benefits – just future expenses.  
In Step 1, we record the $50K cash inflow, but nothing on the Income Statement changes since 
there has been no delivery  to customers:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Cash Flow Generated is up by $50 K, and it now exceeds Net Income. On the Balance Sheet, 
Cash is up by $50 K, and so is Deferred Revenue on the other side.  
When we deliver the courses to the customers who pre -ordered them , we finally record $50K in 
additional Revenue on the Income Statement:  
 
Cash is still up from beginning to end because we’ve recorded $50K in additional Revenue . But 
it’s up by less than before because Income Taxes are now up by $12.5K.  
In real life, there would likely be other expenses associated with this delivery as well , but we 
ignored additional COGS and OpEx here for simplicity.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Inventory  
Next, we decide to expand the business  by selling physical versions of the courses : books, 
printed guides, and so on.  
To do that, we need to buy the supplies and raw materials for the se products before  we sell 
them . 
Even though we have to pay for these supplies  in cash, we cannot list them as expenses on 
the Income Statement until we deliver the products  and record the Revenue for them.  
This will create "Inventory,"  which will result in a temporary difference  between Net Income 
and Cash Flow Generated.  
It will cost $60K to purchase all the supplies for these products , and we’ll be able to sell them 
for $100K once they’re ready.  
Inventory is linked to Cost of Goods Sold (COGS), and we can record an increase in COGS on the 
Income Statement only when we deliver  the finished products to customers.  
Here’s Step 1, which has no changes on the Income Statement due to the lack of delivery:  
 
Cash Flow Generated is down by $60K due to this upfront cash purchase of Inventory.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In Step 2, we record $100K in additional Revenue as we sell and deliver the products  and $60K 
in additional COGS, as Inventory decreases by $60K:  
 
Cash Flow Generated is up by $30K here because we earned $40K in additional Pre -Tax 
Income, which is a $30K in Net Income, assuming a 25% tax rate.  
 
Why Do We Need the Three Financial Statements? 
So far, we've been assuming that when each change takes place, it reverses within a year (e.g., 
purchase Inventory, turn it into finished products , and sell/deliver them).  
But in real life, companies are constantly performing these activities, so Cash Flow Generated 
over an entire ear could be very different from Net Income!  
For example, what if this company's Accounts Receivables and Inventory both increase as it 
sells to bigger customers and sells more physical products?  
Or what if its Deferred Revenue and Accounts Payable both increase as it pre -sells more courses 
and waits to pay service providers?  
Here’s what the Net Income vs. “Cash Flow Generated” picture might look like with many 
changes that have not yet reversed  by the end of the year:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
At this stage, we can no longer track 
just Cash and Equity and 1 -2 other 
line items.  
We need the full financial 
statements  – the Income Statement, 
Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow 
Statement – to track everything.  
Our simple Cash Flow Statement is 
shown above, and we went over the Income Statement at the start of this section.  
Positive adjustments  on the Cash Flow Statement increase “Cash Flow Generated” relative to 
Net Income.  
Negative adjustment  means the opposite: the company has generated less cash than its Net 
Income suggests.  
This is our simple Balance Sheet with the changes shown above:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We need this “Balance Sheet” because of items like Accounts Receivable, Inventory, and 
Prepaid Expenses – items that represent timing  differences  between Net Income and Cash 
Generated.  
“Cash” is like the cash in your bank account ; Accounts Receivable tracks the payments we’re 
owed; Prepaid Expenses tracks what we’ve paid in advance  but have not yet received; and 
Inventory tracks goods we’ve order ed but haven’t yet delivered to customers.  
On the other side, Accounts Payable and Accrued Expense track  what we owe to other  vendors . 
Deferred Revenue tracks cash we’ve collected upfront for products and services that we have 
not yet delivered ; it’s our obligation  to deliver them in the future , so it’s a Liability.  
And “Equity” represents the initial amount we contributed to start the business, plus 
cumulative after -tax profits that we’ve saved up over time.  
Items like Cash, Accounts Receivable, and Prepaid Expenses are Assets because they will deliver 
a future benefit. For example, that Accounts Receivable balance of $ 30K means that we should 
expect $ 30K in cash from customers in the future.  
Items like Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses  are Liabilities  because they represent a 
future obligation . For example, the $ 20K Accounts Payable balance means that we’ll have to 
pay $ 20K in cash for owed expenses in the future.  
You can think of Equity as a funding source for the business that will NOT result in future cash costs.  It includes money contributed by the owners, money raised by selling ownership in the 
business, and the company’s cumulative after -tax profits over time.  
Return to Top
. 
 
Key Rule #2: CapEx , Depreciation , and Long -Term Business Funding  
The section above explains why  the three financial statements – the Income Statement, 
Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow Statement – are necessary : short -term timing differences.  
But many longer- term items  could also affect Net Income and Cash Flow.  
“Longer -term” means that these items exist on the Balance Sheet for more than one year.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The most important such items include Property, Plants & Equipment (PP&E)  and long -term 
business funding in the form of Debt, Equity, and Preferred Stock:  
 
PP&E, Capital Expenditures , and Depreciation 
Let’s say our  company now wants to buy an office, furniture, or equipment such as computers 
and monitors for employees.  
Since these items are all useful for “the long term” – more than one year – we record them as 
“Capital Expenditures.”  
The initial spending does not  correspond 100% to the current period, so it does not appear on 
the Income Statement.  
Instead, we record Capital Expenditures only  on the Cash Flow Statement initially, and then we 
allocate their cost on the Income Statement over time.  
For example, if we spend $400K on new equipment  at the end of Year 1 , here are the changes:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Cash decreases by $400K on the Assets side, and Net PP&E increases by $400K, so the Balance 
Sheet remains in balance.  
Then, to allocate  that initial expense over time, we divide by its “Useful Life” (the number of 
years these items are expected to last) and record it as Depreciation  on the Income Statement.  
If the Useful Life is 5 years, Depreciation = $400K / 5 = $80K per year.  
Since we purchased this equipment at the 
end of Year 1, the Depreciation will begin 
in Year 2.  
The Income Statement is shown on the left: the $80K of Depreciation reduces Pre -
Tax Income by $80 K. 
At a 25% tax rate, Net Income is down by $60K.  
However, Depreciation is also a “non -
cash expense,” so we need to add it back 
on the Cash Flow Statement. 
It’s a non -cash expense in Year  2 because  
we spent the cash on the CapEx in Year 1 . 
No cash spending took place in Year 2!  
Yes, we’re recording this expense in Year 2, but it corresponds to cash spending from Year 1 . 
Here’s what Years 1 and 2 look like on the Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
After initially falling by $400K to $900K, t he Cash balance increases by $20 K, reaching $920K 
due to the tax savings from the $80K of Depreciation.  
We can list the $80 K on the Income Statement, but all it does is reduce Income Taxes by $20 K, 
which boosts Cash by $20 K. 
Net PP&E decreases by $80 K, and on the other side, Equity is down by $60 K because of the 
reduced Net Income.  
Capital Expenditures initially reduce Cash Flow  (as shown above).  
After the initial cash outflow, Net Income decreases in future years because of Depreciation – 
but the Cash balance will increase  due to the tax savings from that Depreciation.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In real life, companies often embed  Depreciation within other line items, such as COGS or 
SG&A, so you should always look at the Cash Flow Statement to get the all -inclusive number.  
 
Issuing  Debt and Paying Interest On It  
We mentioned in the “Core Concepts” guide that companies have two basic options for raising 
money to operate and expand their businesses: Debt and Equity . 
Companies often decide to issue Debt or Equity when they have to purchase a large, expensive item that they cannot afford with their Cash balances.  
When a company issues Debt, the Debt will last for many years – so the issuance does not 
appear on the Income Statement.  
Instead, we record the initial cash inflow  from the Debt on the Cash Flow Statement under Cash 
Flow from Financing, which increases the Debt line item on the Balance Sheet:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Similarly, when a company repays  Debt principal – the outstanding balance –  that also shows 
up only on the Cash Flow Statement.  
The downside of issuing Debt is that companies must pay interest  on it (similar to pay ing 
interest on car loan s or student loans ). 
Since the Debt issuance shown above happens at the end of Year 1, there is no I nterest Expense 
in Year 1.  
The Interest Expense starts in Year 2, and if we assume a 4% interest rate on the Debt, it looks 
like this:  
 
Pre-Tax Income falls by $4, and Net Income falls by $3 at a 25% tax rate.  
If we also assume there’s a $10 Debt Principal Repayment in Year 2, the Balance Sheet and Cash 
Flow Statement look like this:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The initial Debt issuance always boosts the company’s Cash balance, but Cash will decline over 
time as the company pays more in I nterest Expense and repays the Debt principal.  
 
Issuing Equity and Paying Common Shareholders  
When a company issues Equity , on the other hand, it appears as a simple cash inflow on the 
Cash Flow Statement, and nothing ever  shows up on the Income Statement.  
Unlike Debt, Equity does not have any “required” cash payments like the I nterest Expense.  
However, the company also sells part of itself to outsiders . 
So, raising Equity still “costs” the company something; it’s just that it’s not a direct cash cost  like 
the Interest Expense on Debt is.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, perhaps one investor group owns 50% of the company. But then the company 
raises Equity  from new investors, so that group’s ownership falls to 45%.  
They get “diluted,” which means:  
1) They’ll receive less in cash proceeds if the company decides to pay its shareholders.  
 
2) And if the company ever sells itself, they’ll also receive less from the sale.  
Here’s Step 1 of the Equity Issuance process  (no changes on the Income Statement):  
 
Cash increases, and Equity on the Liabilities & Equity side increases to match the change.  
In Step 2, the company might decide to issue  Dividends  or repurchase Stock . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Dividends are cash payments made to shareholder s, and they may be based on the company’s 
Net Income, Share Price, or a figure  such as $0.05 per share.  
Dividends correspond to the current period, but they’re not on the IS because they  do not 
reduce the income available to common shareholders . 
Instead, they are distributed out of  that income , and they appear on the Cash Flow Statement 
within Cash Flow from Financing . 
With Stock Repurchases , the company offers to repurchase shares from existing investors at an 
agreed -upon price, which is usually a premium to their original purchase price.  Mechanically, 
they’re very similar to Dividends:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
25 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Both Dividends and Stock Repurchases are cash outflows on the CFS and reduce Cash and 
Equity on the Balance Sheet.  
The difference is that Stock Repurchases, unlike Dividends, they reduce the company’s Share Count.  
We repurchase $30K of Common Shares at a Share Price of $1.00 each, so the Common Shares Outstanding falls by 30K, going from 1,100K to 1,070K.  
The $55K of Common Dividends and the $30K of Stock Purchases together reduce the Equity 
line item by $85K.  
 
Issuing Preferred Stock and Paying Preferred Stockholders  
In addition to standard Debt and Equity, an option “in the middle” is Preferred Stock , also 
known as Preferred Equity.  
Despite the name, it’s much closer to Debt than Equity because it carries a fixed coupon rate for 
a “Preferred Dividend,” which appears as an expense on the Income Statement.  
Also, issuing and repaying Preferred Stock does not affect the company’s Common Share Count or existing investors’ ownership percentages.  
Preferred Stock tends to be more expensive than Debt, but cheaper than Common Equity  
because Preferred Coupon Rates tend to be higher than Interest Rates  on Debt, but lower than 
average annualized returns on stocks.  
Also, unlike the Interest Expense on Debt, Preferred Dividends are not tax -deductible!  
For these reasons, very few companies use Preferred Stock in real life.  
Companies tend to use it only when lenders refuse to buy additional Debt issuances from them, and Equity issuances are also not feasible.  
As with Debt and Equity, issuances and repayments of Preferred Stock show up only on the Cash Flow Statement.  
Preferred Dividends appear on the Income Statement and are deducted from Net Income to create Net Income to Common . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
26 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
They correspond 100% to the current period and, unlike Common Dividends, Preferred 
Dividends do reduce the income available to the common shareholders : 
 
Be careful about the treatment for Preferred Dividends – unlike what you might think, they 
reduce Common Shareholders’ Equity ! 
Preferred Dividends reduce the income available to common shareholders because Preferred 
investors get paid first, before  the Common Equity investors. And any Preferred Dividends 
reduce the amount of cash available for Common Dividends.  
Return to Top . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
27 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 3: Operating Leases and Finance Leases  
Besides PP&E , Debt, Equity , and Preferred Stock, companies can record  other, longer- term 
items on their Balance Sheet s as well.  
Two of the most common examples are Operating Lease s and Finance Leases  (also/formerly  
known as “Capital Lease s”). 
For many decades, Operating Leases were not shown on companies’ Balance Sheets.  
But the rules changed in 2019, and under both U.S. GAAP and IFRS  (international accounting 
rules  for non- U.S. companies ), Operating Leases now appear as Liabilities, with their 
corresponding Assets  (called “Right -of-Use Assets”) on the other side of the Balance Sheet.  
With both Operating Leases and Finance Leases, the company pays the same amount in cash 
to the lessor (the landlord or asset owner ) each year.  
For example, if it’s a 10 -year lease for $20 per year, the company pay s that $20 in cash each 
year for 10 years.  
The difference is that if the lease has an “ownership transfer” option or the option to 
purchase the asset at a “bargain price” (or it meets several other criteria), it’s classified as a Finance Lease because it gives the company the potential benefits and risks of ownership. 
With Operating Leases, on the other hand, there is no ownership transfer or bargain purchase 
option, and the company does not “own” the asset it is leasing . 
When the lease ends , the company either renews it or lets it expire and returns the asset to its 
owner . 
To understand the accounting for Operating Leases, you need to understand the accounting for Finance Leases, so we’ll start there.  
Also, Finance Leases work the same way under U.S. GAAP and IFRS, while Operating Leases are slightly different, so it’s simpler to start with Finance Leases.  
Finance Lease Example and Explanation  
We’ll make the following assumptions to explain Finance Leases:  
• Lease Expense:  $20 per year over 10 years  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
28 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Discount Rate:  6% 
• Company Tax Rate:  25%  
When the company first signs this lease, it records a Lease Asset and Lease Liability based on 
the Present Value (PV) of the future lease payments:  
 
The PV is $147, so the company records $147 for the Lease Asset and the Lease Liability.  
There is no cash impact from the initial signing of this lease because the Asset and the Liability both increase by the same amount . 
Each year after this, rather than recording a simple $20 Lease Expense on the Income 
Statement, the company “pretends” that it has issued  Debt to purchase the Asset, and that it 
now owns the Asset . 
Therefore, the company records “Interest” and “Depreciation” on its Income Statement based 
on the following  rules:  
• Interest Expense : Discount Rate * Lease Liability, so this is 6% * $147 = $8.8 initially. 
This “Interest Expense” decreases as the Lease Liability decreases.  
 
• Lease Depreciation:  This one is a fixed annual number based on the Initial Lease Asset / 
Lease Term, so  it is $147 / 10 = $14.7 each year for 10 years here.  
So, the initial Income Statement Expense for this Finance Lease is $8.8 + $14.7 = $23.5 – even 
though the company pays only $20 in cash for this lease  each year.  
On the Cash Flow Statement, the company adds back the “Lease Depreciation, ” as it also does 
for the normal Depreciation on its PP&E.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
29 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But it also records a cash outflow for the “Lease Principal Repayment”  or “Repayment of Lease 
Capital Element” (or similar name) on the Cash Flow Statement.  
This “Lease Principal Repayment” equals the Cash Lease Expense minus the annual Interest 
Expense, so it changes each year . 
Initially, it’s $20.0 – $8.8 = $11.2, and it increases as the Interest Expense decreases.  
Each year, the Lease Asset decreases by the Depreciation, and the Lease Liability decreases by the Lease Principal Repayment. Here’s the full schedule:  
 
The Income Statement Expense starts at $24 total, but it falls to $16 by the end; the cumulative 
expense  over the entire 10 -year period is still $200.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
30 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The cumulative  cash flow impact  is $150 because of the company’s 25% tax rate and the tax 
deduction it receives on the $200 cumulative Lease Expense ($200 * (1 – 25%) = $150).  
If the Finance Lease is signed at the end of Year 1, and the first full Lease Expense is recorded in 
Year 2, the financial statements look like this:  
 
So, the Finance Lease Asset and Liability both increase by $147 initially, but they decrease by 
different amounts in the first full year  because the Lease Depreciation and Lease Principal 
Repayment are slightly different.  
Operating Lease Example and Explanation  
Under IFRS, Operating Leases work the same way as Finance Leases: companies record Interest 
and Depreciation on the Income Statement, add back Depreciation on the Cash Flow 
Statement, and subtract the Lease Principal Repayment further down on the CFS.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
31 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Lease Asset and Lease Liability decrease each year until the lease ends , but they decrease 
by slightly different amounts  because the Lease Depreciation is constant, while the Lease 
Principal Repayment changes each year.  
Under U.S. GAAP, however, the accounting treatment of Operating Leases is quite different . 
Initially, the company still records a Lease Asset and Lease Liability on the Balance Sheet based 
on the Present Value of future lease payments.  
On the Income Statement, though, U.S.- based companies record a constant Lease Expense each 
year  rather than splitting it into Interest and Depreciation.  
Then, on the Cash Flow Statement, companies record a “Change in Operating Lease Assets” and 
a “Change in Operating Lease Liabilities” based on  the Lease Depreciation and the Lease 
Principal Repayment –  even though they’re not explicit line items under U.S. GAAP!  
U.S.- based companies “pretend” that this Lease Expense is split into Interest and Depreciation 
based on the following rules : 
• Interest Expense : Discount Rate * Lease Liability, so this is initially 6% * $147 = $8.8 in 
this example . It decreases as the Lease Liability decreases.  
 
• Lease Depreciation:  This is not  a fixed annual number under U.S. GAAP. Instead, it 
equals the Cash Lease Expense minus the Interest Expense, so it is initially $20.0 – $8.8 = 
$11.2 in this example.  
 
• Lease Principal Repayment:  If the Cash Lease Expense is constant each year , this one 
equals the Lease Depreciation under U.S. GAAP. If it’s not  a constant number, this one 
equals Straight -Line Rental Expense on the Income Statement  minus the Interest 
Expense  above (U.S. companies record a constant Rent al Expense on the Income 
Statement even when the cash payment changes).  
The main difference is that under U.S. GAAP, the Lease Asset and Lease Liability decrease by 
the same amount each year  for leases with constant annual payments.  
Here’s the same scenario with a $20 per year Operating L ease over 10 years  under U.S. GAAP:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
32 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Cumulative Income Statement Expense of $200 is the same as it is under the Finance Lease 
treatment, and so is the Cumulative Cash Flow Impact  of $150.  
Here’s the same lease on the financial statements under U.S. GAAP, with a signing at the end of 
Year 1 and the first full Lease Expense in Year 2:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
33 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Lease Asset and Lease Liability increase by $147 under both the Finance Lease and 
Operating Lease treatments.  
However, for Operating Leases under U.S. GAAP, they decrease by the same amount each year  
assuming that the cash lease payments are constant. 
But with Finance Leases under both accounting systems , and Operating Leases under IFRS, the 
Lease Asset and Lease Liability decrease by slightly different amounts . 
They also decrease by different amounts for Operating Leases under U.S. GAAP if the cash lease 
payments change each year  (e.g., the payment is $200 in Year 1, but it falls to $100 by Year 10)  
Return to Top . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
34 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 4: Financial Investments  
If a company has a substantial Cash balance  and it has no ideas for what to do with it, one 
option is to purchase Financial Investments , such as stocks, bonds, and other assets that pay 
interest or dividends.  
Financial Investments may be short -term or long -term, but the accounting treatment is the 
same in both cases.  
The initial purchase shows up only on the Cash Flow Statement, and the Interest Income  
appears directly on the Income Statement.  
Here’s what happens with a $100 purchase in Year 1, $2 in Interest Income in Year 2, and a $50 
sale of the Investments at the end of Year 2:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
35 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The initial purchase counts as a cash outflow that reduces the Cash balance by $100, and the $2 
of Interest Income ($1.5 after taxes) increases both Net Income and Cash.  
The Sale of Financial Investments appears on the Cash Flow Statement as a cash inflow because it’s related to a longer- term item and is considered an investing activity.  
There would be an Income Statement impact from the sale only if the company recorded a Gain or Loss  on it (e.g., it purchased the Investments for $100 but sold them for $110 or $90).  
One of the next sections cover s this topic
. 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 5: Deferred Taxes and Net Operating Losses (NOLs)  
An expense on the Income Statement does not  necessarily mean the company has paid that 
expense in cash, and the same is true of taxes.  
In fact, all large companies prepare two sets of financial statements: one for “ Book” purpos es 
(shown in annual and quarterly reports)  and one for “Tax” purposes  (for the government).  
These sets of financial statements are similar, but not the same, for several reasons:  
• Companies may use accelerated  Depreciation  in earlier years to reduce their tax burden 
(and better reflect reality, in some cases).  
 
• Some expenses may not be deductible for tax purposes , even though they’re listed on 
the Income Statement.  
 
• The company might get tax credits  from certain activities, such as research & 
development.  
When one of these events happens, another “timing difference” line item – Deferred Taxes  – 
gets created.  
It represents the difference  between the company's  Book Taxes ( the number on the Income 
Statement ) and its Cash Taxes (what the company pays to the government).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
36 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We show Income Taxes on the Income Statement based on Pre -Tax Income * Tax Rate  and 
then adjust them on the Cash Flow Statement to reflect the Cash Taxes.  
However, not all companies set it up like this, and you will see variations . 
Here’s a simple example to illustrate how Deferred Taxes and the Deferred Tax Liability work on 
the financial statements : 
 
In the Income Statement on the left, the company records straight -line Depreciation  for $100 
per year.  
But for tax purposes, the company records accelerated Depreciation , shown on the right -hand 
side for $150, $100, and then $50 per year.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
37 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
As a result, the company’s Cash Taxes are lower than Book Taxes by $12.5 in Year 1, they equal 
Book Taxes in Year 2, and Cash Taxes are $12.5 higher than Book Taxes in Year 3.  
So, the Deferred Tax Liability initially increases to $12.5, stays at $12.5 in Year 2, and then 
decreases to $0 in Year 3 once the Asset is fully depreciated.  
If Cash Taxes exceed Book Taxes, Deferred Taxes  on the CFS are negative because the company 
is paying more  than what is shown on its Income Statement; if Book Taxes exceed Cash Taxes, 
then Deferred Taxes are positive.  
The Deferred Tax Liability  (DTL)  on the Balance Sheet tracks  these timing differences . 
It increases when Book Taxes exceed Cash Taxes because that means the company will need to 
pay higher Cash Taxes in the future . 
And it decreases when Cash Taxes exceed Book Taxes because that represents the company 
now paying those higher Cash Taxes, reducing its liability.  
If we make the following assumptions:  
• End of Year 1:  Company spends $400 on CapEx  
 
• Year 2 Book Depreciation:  $40 (Straight -line, useful life of 10 years)  
 
• Year  2 Tax Depreciation:  $80 (Accelerated)  
Then here’s what the financial statements look like, starting with the Income Statement and 
Tax Schedule:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
38 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is lower by $30, we add back the $40 of Book 
Depreciation, and we record +$10 for Deferred Income Taxes.  
Without  these changes, the Net Change in Cash would have been $150; with  these changes, it’s 
$170 instead.  
Cash by $20, so it increases from $900 to $920 on the Balance Sheet. Net PP&E decreases to 
$360  ($400 minus $40 of Book Depreciation) , the DTL increases by $10, and CSE is down by $30  
because of the reduced Net Income.  
Therefore, both sides are down by $20 and balance : 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
39 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
In addition to Deferred Tax Liabilities, there are also Deferred Tax Assets (DTAs),  which 
represent potential future tax savings . 
Deferred Tax Assets can include many items , but the most important one for financial modeling  
and valuation purposes is the Net Operating Loss (NOL) . 
If a company has lost money (i.e., it has had negative Pre -Tax Income) in previous years, it can 
reduce its Cash Taxes in the future by applying these  losses to reduce its Taxable Income.  
For example, consider a company that has had negative Pre -Tax Income in the past two years.  
It accumulates a “Net Operating Loss” balance of $100, which it can then use to reduce its 
Taxable Income if its Taxable Income ever turns positive.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
40 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If this company then earns negative Pre -Tax Income again, it will once again accumulate a Net 
Operating Loss.  Here’s a simple example:  
 
The Deferred Tax Asset decreases  when the company uses NOLs, and it increases  when the 
company accumulates NOLs due to negative Pre -Tax Income.  
If the DTA decreases , the company’s cash flow increases  because it’s using the NOL to reduce 
its taxes; if the DTA increases , cash flow decreases . 
Note that Net Operating Losses are NOT the same as Deferred Tax Assets!  
The DTA represents only the tax-savings potential  from NOLs, so a $100 NOL would be 
recorded as a $25 DTA at a 25% tax rate.  
The full NOL is an “off- Balance Sheet” line item.  
One problem on the financial statements is that there are Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax 
Liabilities, but only one item on the CFS  – Deferred Taxes – links into them.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
41 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We typically get around this issue by creating a single “Net Deferred Tax Asset” (Net DTA) line 
item by taking the DTA and subtracting the DTL (or saying that the Net DTL = DTL –  DTA) . 
Here’s what the statements look like if the company experiences a loss one year, followed by an 
application of NOLs the next year:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
42 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement , there’s a negative adjustment for Deferred 
Taxes in Year 1 and a positive one in Year 2, so the Net DTA increases and then decreases:  
 
We introduce d Deferred Taxes  here because they’ll come up in the next few key rules , which 
relate to Income Statement expenses that may not be deductible  for Cash -Tax purposes.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 6: Gains, Losses, Impairments, and Write -Downs  
In addition to raising funds via Debt and Equity, companies can also get Cash by selling Assets. 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
43 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if a company has stock -market investments or physical equipment it doesn’t need, 
and it wants extra Cash, it could sell those A ssets.  
To illustrate the simplest case, let’s assume that a company spent $400 on CapEx at the end of 
Year 1 , which boosted its Net PP&E balance to $400.  
Then, it decides to sell $100 of that PP&E at the end of Year 2 to get extra Cash.  
If it purchased this PP&E for $100  and it sells this same PP&E for $100, and we ignore 
Depreciation for simplicity , here’s what it looks like on the statements:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
44 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Nothing changes on the Income Statement because these are Long -Term Assets , and the 
purchase and sale of PP&E do not affect the income available to common shareholders.  
Cash initially falls by $400, and Net PP&E increases by $400. Then, when the sale is completed, 
the $100 of proceeds show up on the Cash Flow Statement, and Cash increases by $100 while 
Net PP&E falls by $100.  
On the other hand, if the company sells this $100 of PP&E for some amount that is not $100, 
then it must record a Gain or Loss on the Income Statement. 
If the company sells this PP&E for less than its Book Value  – its value on the Balance Sheet – it 
will record a Loss . If it sells this item for more  than its B ook Value , it will record a Gain . 
For example, if the company sells this PP&E for $180, it will record a Gain of $80  on the Income 
Statement (since it relates to an action or event in this current period only ): 
 
The Cash Flow Statement and Balance Sheet are more complex : 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
45 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Net Income is up by $60, but we reverse the Gain or Loss , which means that we subtract the 
$80 Gain here.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
46 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In Cash Flow from Investing, though, we show the FULL proceeds from the sale, including the 
Gain or Loss,  which means +$180 here.  
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is up by $160, and Net PP&E is down by $100. On the L&E side, CSE is up by $60 due to the increased Net Income, so both sides are up by $60 and balance.  
We reverse the Gain or Loss on the CFS because, for example, if it’s a Loss, we don’t literally 
“lose money” in Year 2.  
We still get Cash from the sale of the PP&E; it’s just that we lose money over the course of Years 
1 through 2 . 
You can also think of it as “ re-classifying ” the Gains and Losses out of CFO and into CFI because 
they're not operational ; they’re related to investing in long -term Assets.  
Cash always increases from the sale of Assets such as PP&E. The exact amount depends on 
whether there’s a Gain, Loss, or nothing at all:  
Change in Cash  = Book Value of PP&E Sold + Gain * (1 – Tax Rate) – Loss * (1  – Tax Rate).  
Recording Gains and Losses on a company’s Income Statement is similar to individuals paying 
taxes on capital gains and deducting capital losses when they sell stocks.  
Besides selling an Asset such as PP&E for a different price , a company could also write down or 
impair  that Asset.  
Continuing with this example of a company spending $400K on CapEx in Year 1, perhaps there 
is a natural disaster at the end of Year 2 that breaks  some of the equipment – or its value 
changes due to new business requirements or regulations.  
When Assets like this turn out to be worth less than expected , companies record write -downs 
or impairment charges  to reflect the change in value.  
From an accounting perspective, write -down and impairments are similar to depreciation: they 
are non -cash expenses that reduce Pre- Tax Income and Net Income and then get added back on 
the Cash Flow Statement, reducing the corresponding Asset.  
The key difference is that unlike  Depreciation, Impairments and Write -Downs are usually NOT 
deductible for Cash- Tax purposes.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
47 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
That’s because they’re not regular, predictable events, and because the company has not y et 
sold the Asset. When the sale happens and cash changes hands, the company can realize the 
tax benefits from a write -down.  
Here’s what a $100 P P&E Write -Down  on $400 of Net PP&E looks like (once again, we ignore  
the Depreciation for simplicity) : 
 
And here are the Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
48 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
We add back the PP&E Write -Down on the CFS, but we also record ($25) in Deferred Income 
Taxes to represent the lack of Cash- Tax savings from this change.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
49 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Net Change in Cash is still $150  (unchanged) because of the lack of Cash- Tax savings.  
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is unchanged, Net PP&E is down by $1 00, and the Net DTA is up by 
$25, so Total Assets are down by $75  and are listed at $1 ,225 rather than $1,300.  
On the other side, Common Shareholders’ Equity is also down by $ 75 due to the reduced Net 
Income, so both sides are down by $ 75 and balance.  
In an interview,  you could skip the Deferred Income Tax change and just say that “Cash 
increase by $25” because of “Tax savings from the Write -Down. ” 
However, it’s not that much harder  to give the correct explanation . The only difference  is that 
the DTA, rather than Cash, increases.  
You don’t even need a “Tax Schedule ” to do this. Just think intuitively: If Taxes decrease by $25, 
did they truly decrease by $25 in cash terms?  
If not, then the Deferred Tax Asset should increase. When the company finally sells this written-
down Asset, it can realize the tax benefits from this newly created DTA.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 7: Stock -Based Compensation  
Companies can pay their employees with  salaries, bonuses, and benefits, and they can also pay 
employees with stock  and stock options . 
For example, if an employee earns $100 K per year, the company might decide to offer $70K in 
base salary and pay the remaining $30K in stock, which grants the employee a small percentage of ownership in the company.  
This strategy helps the company because it reduces cash operating expense s, and it incentivizes 
employees to stay for the long term . 
If the company performs well, this Stock -Based Compensation  is also a win for the employee 
because that $30K could rise significantly in value  (note the “if” and “could” here).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
50 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Stock -Based Compensation  is an Income Statement expense that reduces a company’s Pre -Tax 
Income  and Net Income , and like Depreciation, it is a non -cash expense  that’s added back on 
the Cash Flow Statement.  
Similar to Impairments and Write -Downs, Stock -Based Compensation is not deductible for 
Cash -Tax purposes when it is first issued to employees.  
It only becomes deductible later on, once employees exercise their options  and receive their 
shares  – and since the timing is unpredictable, models often omit this second step.  
Finally, unlike other non -cash expenses, Stock -Based Compensation (SBC) creates additional 
shares outstanding . 
If the company issues options to employees, which give them the right, but not the obligation, 
to pay money for new shares in the future, those new shares won’t be created right away.  
But the potential  is always there, and the company’s “diluted share count” (a metric that 
includes outstanding shares and one that may be created from sources like employee stock 
options) increases . 
Since Stock- Based Compensation changes a company’s share count, you treat it differently from 
“true” non -cash expenses such as Depreciation.  
Issuing SBC reduces the company’s value  to existing investors , so in valuations, you often count 
it as a normal cash expense . 
(For more on these points, please see the guide  to Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and 
Valuation Multiples, and the one on Valuation and DCF Analysis.)  
Here’s what $100 of SBC looks like, starting with the Income Statement:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
51 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
As with all non -cash expense s, SBC is added back on the Cash Flow Statement and links into its 
corresponding Balance Sheet line item (Common Shareholders’ Equity).  
If you pretend that SBC results in Cash -Tax savings, Cash increases by $25; if you use the correct 
tax treatment, the Net DTA increases by $25:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
52 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The initial issuance of SBC does not affect the Cash balance, and it increase s the company’s 
share count. These are major differences vs. standard non- cash expenses, such as Depreciation.  
Return to Top . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
53 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Key Rule # 8: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets from M&A Deals  
If a company wants to grow, another option is to acquire other assets or companies . 
The basic accounting for acquisitions is not that complicated: we combine the financial 
statements of both companies and make a few adjustments.  
For example, if the Acquirer use s Cash to make the acquisition, we reduce its Cash balance.  
If it raise s Debt, we increase the Debt balance, and if it issue s Stock, we increase Common 
Shareholders’ Equity . 
We also wipe out or “write down” the Target’s Common Shareholders’ Equity since it no longer 
exists as an independent entity.  
Combining items like Revenue, Operating Expenses , and Accounts Receivable  is simple  (add the 
Acquirer’s item and the Target’s item for each one).  
The rule s get trickier wh en the Acquirer pays a purchase price that’s different  from the 
Target’s Common Shareholders’ Equity.  
In that case, there will be a “mismatch” that causes the Combined Balance Sheet to go out of balance.  
In real life, this happens in ~99% of mergers and acquisitions because companies are rarely worth exactly  what their Balance Sheets indicate.  
For example, consider the scenario below, where the Target’s Common Shareholders’ Equity is $150, and the Equity Purchase Price is $200.  
If we reduce Cash by $200 and also write down the Target’s CSE when combining the Balance Sheets, we run into a problem:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
54 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
To “plug the gap” and make the Balance Sheet balance, we create several new Assets : 
• Other Intangible Assets:  This line item corresponds to identifiable assets , such as 
contracts, patents, trademarks, customer relationships , and brand value.  
 
• Goodwill:  This one corresponds to the remainder of the "gap" – anything that cannot be 
linked to a concrete item, but which is part of the premium the Acquirer pay s. 
Normally, we make Other Intangible Assets a percentage of this Purchase Premium, and the 
rest of the Purchase Premium goes into Goodwill : 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
55 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
With these new Assets, the Combined Balance Sheet now balances correctly:  
 
Other Intangible Assets amortize over time , just like how PP&E depreciates over time  (there 
are also “Indefinite -Lived Intangibles, ” but most  Intangible Assets amortize.)  
But Goodwill does not amortize!  Instead, the company reviews it each year and records an 
Impairment if its value has decreased.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
56 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Amortization of Intangible Assets and Goodwill Impairments are not  deductible for Cash-
Tax purposes.  
Let’s start by looking at a simple scenario : a $200K acquisition in Year 1 , with $140K of Acquired 
Assets, $40K in Goodwill, and $20K in Other Intangible Assets:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
57 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Cash is down by $200K, but Other Intangible Assets, Goodwill, and Assets from Acquisitions 
increase by a total of $200K, so Total Assets stays the same.  
If the company then  amortize s $4 of the Other Intangibles ( i.e., a 5-year amortization period) 
and record s a $20 Goodwill Impairment  in Year 2:  
 
And then on the Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
58 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The most important point is that Cash does not change from just the Amortization of 
Intangibles or the Goodwill Impairment.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
59 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It changes only  if you simplify , ignore Deferred Taxes, and say that the Amortization and 
Goodwill Impairment “reduce the company’s taxes.”  
This specific scenario is unrealistic because we haven’t recorded the additional Revenue and 
Expenses from this acquired company.  
Once you include them , the Cash balance will change because Net Income will be different.  
This section is an introduction to the topic, so we’re not covering that scenario here, but some 
of the multi -step interview questions explain the steps . 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #9 : U.S. GAAP vs. IFRS 
There are two main accounting systems worldwide: U.S. GAAP  (“Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles”) and IFRS (“International Financial Reporting Standard”).  
Throughout this guide, we have been using the U.S. GAAP treatment for the financial 
statements  because these standards are not dramatically  different.  
Under both systems, the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow Statement still exist; Revenue is still recorded when the product/service is delivered, there are still Capital 
Expenditures and PP&E and Depreciation, and so on.  
The main differences  are as follows:  
1) Income Statement and Balance Sheet  – The names of a few items might be different ; 
for example, U.K. -based companies often call Revenue “Turnover, ” and the Balance 
Sheet might be the “Statement of Financial Position.”  
 
2) Cash Flow Statement  – IFRS -based companies often start the CFS with Operating 
Income or Pre -Tax Income rather than Net Income, or they use the Direct Method  to 
create the CFS. In other words, they show actual cash outflows and inflows rather than 
starting with Net Income and adjusting it (the “Indirect Method”).  
 
3) Location of Items  – IFRS -based companies often place items on the Cash Flow 
Statement  in more “random” locations, so you’ll see Dividends, Interest, and Taxes  in 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
60 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Cash Flow from Operations… or Cash Flow from Financing… or maybe even Cash Flow 
from Investing.  
 
4) Operating Leases  – As you learned in the section on leases , the Operating Lease 
expense is split into Interest and Depreciation elements under IFRS, but it’s a simple 
Rental Expense within Operating Expenses under U.S. GAAP.  
Here’s an example of a Cash Flow Statement for an IFRS -based company (EasyJet):  
This statement is quite problematic . 
First off, it’s impossible to link this to the 
Balance Sheet since changes to items like 
Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable 
are not shown.  
Second, “Cash Generated from Operations” 
doesn’t match anything on the Income 
Statement.  
Third, Dividends are listed  in Cash Flow from 
Operating Activities . 
Fourth, it’s not ideal to show changes to 
items like Money -Market Deposits and 
Restricted Cash on the CFS; they should be 
part of “Cash” on the Balance Sheet.  
Finally, Net Interest and Taxes should appear 
on the IS and then be adjusted on the CFS.  
When you encounter this type of Cash Flow 
Statement , you need to find a reconciliation 
between “Cash Generated from Operations” 
and Net Income or Operating Income, and 
then modify the Cash Flow Statement.  
Here’s an example for  EasyJet:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
61 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The company is still doing things 
a bit differently because these 
items are based  on adjustments 
to Operating Income , not Net 
Income, but it’s good enough.  
They’re giving us the non -cash 
adjustments and changes in 
operational Balance Sheet items, 
which are all we need.  
One remaining issue is that the 
Interest Income, Interest 
Expense, and Taxes on the Cash 
Flow Statement do not match 
those on the Income Statement.  
This happens because portions of 
these items on the Income 
Statement may be non- cash, and 
in some cases, the cash paid by the company may exceed the expenses shown on the Income 
Statement.   
You’ve already seen this with Deferred Taxes and the required adjustments there , but the same 
thing can happen with Interest Income and Interest Expense as well.  
So, we’ll record the se differences in the Deferred Taxes line item and an “Other Adjustments” 
line for everything else.  
Here’s the revised Cash Flow Statement:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
62 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
This version is much easier to work with because it starts with Net Income. 
Then, it makes the standard non -cash adjustments, including the Depreciation and 
Amortization add -backs and Deferred Income Taxes.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
63 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Next, it shows the changes in the operational Balance Sheet items, like Accounts Receivable and 
Accounts Payable.  
We moved the Dividends down to Cash Flow from Financing and removed the Money -Market 
Deposits and Restricted Cash items, so they’re part of the “Net Change in Cash” instead.  
We always  make these adjustments  when working with IFRS -based companies , or others 
whose Cash Flow Statements do not start with Net Income. 
All the remaining sections of this guide and the interview questions and answers  follow this 
treatment as well.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #10 : Summary of the Three Financial Statements  
The Income Statement  shows a company’s revenue, expenses, and taxes  over a period  of time  
(one quarter , one month, one year, etc. ). 
It starts with Net Sales at the top ( AKA Revenue, Turnover, etc.) and goes all the way down to 
after -tax profits, or Net Income ( to Common ), at the bottom.  
To appear on the Income Statement, each item must meet the following criteria:  
1. It must correspond ONLY to the period shown on the Income Statement . If a company 
pays for an A sset that last s for 10 -20 years, the initial money spent does not appear on a 
1-year Income Statement.  But the rent  for that one year  does  appear.  This rule explains 
why items like CapEx, Stock Issuances, Debt Issuances, etc., do not appear on the IS.  
 
2. It must affect the business income available to common shareholders (Net Income  to 
Common ). This rule explains why items like Preferred Dividends and Interest Expense do 
appear  on the Income Statement: Debt and Preferred Stock Investors get paid first, 
which reduces the income available to the common shareholders.  
Plenty of non -cash items , such as Depreciation, Amortization, and Stock -Based Compensation, 
appear on the Income Statement because they meet the requirements above.  
Even an item like Revenue may be “non -cash” if it corresponds to products/services that the 
company has delivered but not yet collected in cash.  
Therefore, the cash vs. non -cash distinction is irrelevant.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
64 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The screenshot on the right demonstrates 
common items on the Income Statement : 
Revenue and Cost of Goods Sold (COGS):  
Revenue is the total value of the 
products/services that a company delivers in 
the period, and COGS represents the 
expenses that are linked directly  to the 
delivery of those products/services.  
Operating Expenses:  These include costs 
that are not directly linked to individual 
products sold , such as employee salaries, 
rent, sales  and marke ting, and research and 
development . 
Depreciation  and Amortization  (D&A) : 
These are non -cash expenses that represent 
the allocation of capital purchases , such as 
spending on factories, equipment, patents , 
or anything else that will be useful for more 
than one year.  
Since these items last for many years , we 
allocate the initial amount spent over many years on the Income Statement.  
In real life, Depreciation and Amortization are often embedded  within COGS or Operating 
Expenses. We show them separately for clarity, but they’ll rarely  be 100% separate in real life.  
When D&A or other non -cash expenses  are embedded within other line items, you have to look 
at the Cash Flow Statement  to get the all- inclusive number.  
Stock -Based Compensation:  This represents the cost of paying employees with stock or stock 
options rather than cash  salaries, benefits, and bonuses . Companies esti mate the value of these 
awards  and then record their estimates on the Income Statement  when initially granted.  
Like D&A, this is rarely  shown separately in real life; i t’s usually embedded  within Operating 
Expenses.  
Other Income and Expenses:  Items such as Interest Income, Interest Expense, Gains and 
Losses, Write -Downs, and Impairments show up here.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
65 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If a company has “side activities” that aren’t part of its core business, income from those 
activities also appears here.  
Everything in this section corresponds 100% to activities in the current period, but these 
items are NOT part of the company’s core business of selling  and delivering its products  and 
services . 
Some of these items , such as Gains and Losses, Write -Downs, and Impairments , are non-cash  as 
well.  
Taxes and Net Income:  Net Income  (to 
Common)  represents the company’s 
“bottom line” – how much it earned  in 
after-tax profits.  
Taxes on the Income Statement are “Book 
Taxes,” which means they do not 
represent the company’s exact cash 
payments to the government.  
If Book Taxes and Cash Taxes both have 
negative signs, then Cash Taxes  = Book 
Taxes + Deferred Taxes on the CFS.  
For example, if Book Taxes are ($100) and 
Deferred Taxes are +$40, the company 
paid $40 less in Cash Taxes, so Cash Taxes 
= ($100) + $40 = ($60).  
Many items arising from acquisitions and one-time events are not  deductible for Cash- Tax 
purposes ; the most common ones are shown above.  
Balance Sheet Overview  
The Balance Sheet  shows the company’s resources  – its Assets – and how it paid for  those 
resources  – its Liabilities & Equity – on a specific date.  
The Income Statement shows revenue and expenses from  January 1, 20XX to  December 31, 
20XX, b ut the Balance Sheet only shows the company's resources ON  January 1, 20XX or ON 
December 31, 20XX.  
Assets must alw ays equal Liabilities + Equity  – if the Balance Sheet does not balance, it's 
wrong.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
66 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if a company has $50K in Cash and $450K in PP&E, its L&E side must also equal 
$500K. So, maybe it has $300K of Equity and $200K of Deb t, or $500K of  Equity and $0 of Debt, 
or anything else that results in a total of $500K.  
An Asset  is something that will result in a future benefit for the company, such as additional 
cash flow  (e.g., Accounts Receivable), the ability to grow the business  (e.g., Net PP&E) , or a 
higher valuation due to intellectual property, brand names, or customer relationships (e.g., 
Other Intangible Assets).  
“Future benefit” could even mean reducing future cash flows  (e.g., Deferred Tax Assets).  
Companies typically split Assets into “Current” or “Short -Term” (anything that lasts for less than 
a year) and “Non -Current” or “Long -Term” (anything that lasts for more than a year).  
A Liability or Equity line item  is something that will result in a future obligation for the 
company, such as a cash payment  (Accounts Payable), delivery of a product or service (Deferred 
Revenue), or cash interest payments and a final, large repayment to an external party (Debt).  
Again, companies typically split these into “Current” or “Short- Term” and “Non -Current” or 
“Long- Term.”  
Liabilities usually involve external parties  – lenders, suppliers, or the government  – while Equity 
line items are more related to the company’s internal operations.  
Both Liabilit ies and Equity act as funding sources for the company’s resources (Assets), but 
Equity line items do not result in direct, predictable cash outflow s in quite the same way as 
Liabilities.  
For example, Debt , a Liability,  results in real cash expenses due to the annual interest expense 
and the final repayment upon maturity.  
But if a company issues Equity via a common stock issuance, it doesn’t “have to” pay anything 
in cash to the new shareholders  who just bought the stock.  
The company could issue Dividends to them in the future, and if  the company sells itself , its 
earlier investors will own less and , therefore, receive a lower percentage of the proceeds.  
But these are not “direct cash costs” in the same way the ones associated with Liabilities are.  
Here’s the Balance Sheet that we built up to in this course:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
67 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
We’re not going to redefine every single item here – if you’re not sure what these mean, please 
refer to the previous sections on Working Capital , CapEx and Depreciation , and Leases . 
One final note: we typically show Common Shareholders’ Equity  (CSE)  in one single line rather 
than splitting it up into components, as most companies do in their statements.  
We use this approach because the individual components of CSE make  no difference in 
modeling and valuation.  
If you want to know the individual components, however, here’s a summary:  
• Common Stock  – This is used for the "par value" of shares issued times the number of 
shares issued over time.  For example, if the company has issued 1,000 shares total at a 
par value of $1.00 each, Common Stock will be 1,000 * $1.00 = $1,000.  
 
• Additional Paid -In Capital (APIC)  – This is used for (Market Value  – Par Value ) of shares 
issued, times the number of shares in each issuance, cumulatively since the start of the 
company’s existence. F ollowing the example above, if the company issued shares once  
at a market value of $10.00 per share, APIC = ($10.00 – $1.00) * 1,000 = $9,000.  This 
item does NOT change even if the company’s share price changes!  It reflects only the 
share price at the time of the stock issuance.  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
68 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Retained Earnings  – This one represents the company’s "s aved -up, after -tax earnings .” 
You add Net Income to Common and subtract Dividends  each year.  
 
• Treasury Stock  – This item represents the cumulative market value of shares the 
company has repurchased from shareholders . Similar to APIC, the values here are based  
on the share price at the time the company repurchased the shares . This value does  
NOT  change even if the company’s share price changes afterward.  
 
• Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI)  – This section is for “miscellaneous 
saved -up income” – items like the effect of foreign currency exchange rate changes go 
here , as well as certain hedging and translation reserves.  Unrealized gains and losses on 
certain security types may also flow into this line item.  
Cash Flow Statement Overview  
The Cash Flow Statement , like the Income Statement, shows changes over a period  (one year, 
one quarter, one month, etc.).  
It exists for two main reasons:  
1) The company may have recorded non -cash Revenue, Expenses, or Taxes on the 
Income Statement . If it did, then it need s to make adjustments on the Cash Flow 
Statement to reflect the actual amount of cash received or paid.  
 
2) There may be additional cash inflows and outflows that have NOT appeared on the 
Income Statement . For example, Capital Expenditures and Dividends both impact a 
company’s Cash balance, but neither one appears on the Income Statement.  
Here’s the Cash Flow Statement we built, along with a summary of each section:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
69 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Cash Flow from Operations  (CFO)  – Starts 
with Net Income (to Common) at the top, 
adjusts for non -cash items, and then 
factors changes in operational  Balance 
Sheet items change in the period.  
Rough Proxy:  Corresponds to Current 
Assets and Current Liabilities … but not 
exactly since Cash, Investments, and Debt 
do NOT  show up here, as they are non -
operational.  And changes in Lease Assets 
and Liabilities (both long -term items) may 
appear here  as well!  
So, it's better  to think of this section as : 
"Net Income, non- cash adjustments, and 
operational Balance Sheet items."  
If the company follows IFRS, you’ll have to 
“convert” this section into one that starts 
with Net Income (to Common).  
Cash Flow from Investing  (CFI)  – Items 
related to financial investments, 
acquisitions, and PP&E appear  here.  
Purchases are negative because companies 
spend cash on them , and sales are positive 
because they result in more cash.  
Rough Proxy:  Corresponds to Long -Term 
Assets… but not 100% because changes to 
Operating Lease Assets do not appear here  
under U.S. GAAP, and “Financial 
Investments” could be part of Current 
Assets. 
Cash Flow from Financing  (CFF)  – Items related to D ebt, Dividends, and I ssuing or Repurchasing 
Shares show up here.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
70 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Rough Proxy:  Corresponds to Long -Term Liabilities and Equity … but again, this rule  is not 
exactly true.  
For example, long -term items such as Deferred Tax Liabilities are affected by adjustments in the 
CFO section , not anything in CFF.  
Meanwhile, Common Shareholders’ Equity  is affected not only by the items in this section, but 
also by Net Income and Stock -Based Compensation in CFO . 
And for U.S. -based companies, changes in Long -Term Lease Liabilities usually appear in the CFO 
section instead.  
These rough proxies are  rules of thumb, at best. T here are always exceptions , and companies’ 
financial statements vary significantly.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 11: Link ing and Projecting the Financial Statements  
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate  – Cash Flow Growth Rate), where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate.  
We’ve been covering the financial statements to explain why “Cash Flow” is tricky to calculate, 
even if you understand all the line items.  
But what matters for valuation purposes is how Cash Flow will change  in the future.  
To estimate a company’s future Cash Flows , we project  its financial statements  using the 
following 3 -step process:  
1) Simplify and consolidate  the financial statements . 
 
2) Project line items on the financial statements , such as Revenue, COGS, OpEx, CapEx, 
and Accounts Receivable.  
 
3) Link the financial statements  so that the Balance Sheet balances each year, and so that 
the correct line items change.  
Step 1: Simplify and Consolidate the Financial Statements  
If you try to project a company’s full financial statements  as they appear in the annual reports, 
you will go crazy.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
71 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Many items are smaller and in significant, and most do not affect a company’s valuation. 
Therefore, it’s in your best interest to simplify  the statements as much as possible by grouping 
smaller items. Here’s a summary : 
1) Income Statement  – You shouldn't have to change much here. You may show more or fewer 
categories for Revenue and Expenses, and  you might split up D&A and show it separately from 
everything else. 
For example, here’s how we tweaked Target’s Income Statement:  
 
2) Balance Sheet  – Aim for 5 -10 items on each side, at most . 
Combine "Short -Term" and "Long -Term" versions of items like Debt, Deferred Revenue, 
Investments, etc., as well as any smaller/miscellaneous items . 
We prefer to create one single "Net" Deferred Tax line item  – either a Net DTA or Net DTL  – 
rather than listing them separately  because it’s easier to link the statements this way . 
Don’t list the components of Common Shareholders’ Equity separately because it’s pointless for 
modeling purposes.  List the total amount and, if applicable,  Preferred Stock and Noncontrolling 
Interests separately.  
Be ruthless about COMBINING smaller and less significant line items.  If you have 20 items on 
one side, that’s far too many – 10 is OK, and 5 is even better. Here’s an example for Target:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
72 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
3) Cash Flow Statement – Cash Flow from Operations should start with Net Income, add back 
D&A, have a Deferred Tax line item, and not have too many other line items . 
It’s OK to include a few additional lines and an "Other  Adjustments” line , but you don't want 
~15 items between Net Income and the Change in Working Capital section.  
It’s also fine to add line items for c hanges in Op erating Lease Assets and Liabilities here  – not all 
companies include  these, but they’re convenient for modeling purposes under U.S. GAAP.  
The Working Capital section should follow the company's statements, but if any lines  
correspond to items  you've consolidated on the Balance Sheet, you can do the same on the 
CFS: 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
73 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
In Cash Flow from Investing , you should combine all the line items related to purchasing  and 
selling investments into a single line, keep a line for CapEx, and maybe keep 1-2 other line 
items, depending on the company's  statements.  
For example, Purchases of Intangibles and Acquisitions are fine to keep , and it's also fine to 
group them with  items like "Other Investments."  
 
In Cash Flow from Financing , the main items should be Equity Issuances/Repurchases, Debt 
Issuances/Repayments, and Dividends,  with a few smaller items depending on the company : 
 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
74 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Step 2: Project the Financial Statements  
Once you’ve simplified the financial statements, you can start projecting them . Here’s the 
process we recommend:  
1) Always Start with the Income Statement – P roject Revenue, Expenses, and Taxes there first. 
You can leave Interest Expense and Interest Income blank for now: 
 
The projection methods vary; you could use simple percentage growth rates for Revenue, as we 
do here, or # Units Sold * Average Selling Price, or Market Size * % Market Share.  
 
2) Project Operational Balance Sheet Line Items  – These differ a bit depending on the 
company, but they should include items such as Inventory, Accounts Receivable , Accounts 
Payable,  and Accrued Liabilities . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
75 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Under U.S. GAAP, they also include Operating Lease Assets and Liabilities, but under IFRS, you’ll 
save these items until the end because of the Interest/Depreciation split.  
These are usually percentages of Revenue, SG&A, COGS, and other Income Statement line s: 
 
 
3) Start the CFS with Net Income  (to Common)  – It flows in from the Income Statement and 
becomes the first line of the Cash Flow Statement.  
 
4) Adjust for Non- Cash Items on the Income Statement  – Add back D&A, SBC, Impairments, 
Write -Downs, Deferred Taxes, and so on.  
Change s in Op erating Lease  Assets and Liabilities can also go here  (under U.S. GAAP ), and you 
should link the lines in the Change in Working Capital section to the corresponding Balance 
Sheet line items:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
76 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
5) Project Cash Flow from Investing and Cash Flow from Financing  – CapEx is often linked to 
Revenue or Revenue Growth, and smaller items may use average  percentages.  
Equity Issuances, Debt Issuances, Debt Repayments, and Share Repurchases vary widely based 
on the company and industry, but in more complex models, they should be linked to the 
company’s funding needs.  
We’re simplifying them here and assuming constant numbers:  
 
With these assumptions set up, we can now fill out the CFI and CFF sections of the Cash Flow 
Statement  and complete the next step in the process.  
 
6) Sum Up All Section of the Cash Flow Statement (and FX Rate Effects)  – This will result in the 
Net Change in Cash at the bottom of the CFS : 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
77 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Step 3: Link the Financial Statements  
Start by linking Balance Sheet line items to the Cash Flow Statement . 
For example,  Cash at the bottom of the CFS becomes Cash on the Balance Sheet, and Net 
Income, Stock Issuances , Stock Repurchases, SBC, and Dividends link into Common 
Shareholders’ Equity . 
Items like Debt Issuances and Debt Repayments link into Total Debt on the Balance Sheet.  
CapEx and Depreciation both link into Net PP&E.  
Deferred Income Taxes on the CFS link into the Net DTA or Net DTL . 
And items such as “Other Adjustments” or “Other Change s” often link into “Other Long -Term 
Assets” or “Other Long -Term Liabilities,” as they have nowhere else to go.  
When you’re on the Assets side  of the Balance Sheet, and you’re linking to the Cash Flow 
Statement, subtract CFS links.  
On the Liabilities & Equity side , add the CFS links . 
If you’re confused about which items link where:  
• Cash Flow from Investing generally  corresponds to Long -Term Assets . 
 
• Cash Flow from Financing  generally  corresponds to Long -Term Liabilities and Equity . 
Each “change” should be reflected once and only once on the other statement.  
So, if a BS line item increases, that increase should appear in only one spot  on the CFS.  
Our fully linked Balance Sheet looks like this:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
78 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The main links to the Cash Flow Statement here are as follows:  
• Cash:  Linked to Ending Cash at the bottom of the CFS.  
 
• Net PP&E:  Take the previous Net PP&E number and subtract  D&A, CapEx, and Proceeds 
from PP&E Disposals. CapEx is negative, so subtracting it adds  CapEx to Net PP&E.  
 
• Other Long -Term Assets:  Take the previous Other Long -Term Assets and subtract  
Acquisitions and Other Investments (it’s already negative, so it will add to  Other Long -
Term Assets).  
 
• Total Debt:  Take the previous Total Debt and add Debt Issuances and Repayments.  
 
• Deferred  Tax Liabilities: Take the previous DTL and add Deferred Income Taxes.  
 
• Other Long -Term Liabilities: Take the previous balance and add “Other Items” from  the 
non-cash adjustments section of the Cash Flow Statement.  
Once you’ve done all this, check that the Balance Sheet balances.  
If it does not, go back , review your work , and check the rules of thumb above. You may have to 
go line -by-line and check off items to do this.  
In this case, the Balance Sheet balances, so our “linking work” is done.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
79 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Next, finish the model by filling in Interest Income and Interest Expense on the Income 
Statement.  These can be simple , fixed percentages linked to Investments and Debt. 
Save these items until the end so that you can see the full numbers  from the finished model and 
verify that the Balance Sheet still balances : 
 
Once you’ve finished the financial statement projections, you can move onto the next step: 
financial statement analysis . 
To do that, you’ll use the financial statements to calculate metrics such as Free Cash Flow , 
Return on Equity (ROE) , and Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) – and you’ll use those numbers 
to reach conclusions about the company you’re analyzing.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 12: Free Cash Flow  and the Change in Working Capital  
We have the three financial statements, in cluding the Cash Flow Statement, s o it’s easy to 
determine “Cash Flow”: w e just take the “Net Change in Cash” from the bottom of the Cash 
Flow Statement, right?  
WRONG!  
The problem is tha t companies can spend and receive their cash in many different ways, and 
not all these methods are “ required ” and “recurring.”  
For example, if a company issues Debt or Equity , both activities boost its cash flow – but neither 
one is “required” for the business to keep operating.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
80 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A company could spend cash buying Financial I nvestments, issuing Dividends, or repurchasing 
shares, but all those activities are also “optional.”  
To estimate the company’s discretionary cash flow , therefore, we need a more precise 
definition.  
“Discretionary cash flow” means “cash flow after  the company pays for what it needs to run its 
business and avoid being shut down by external parties such as lenders  and the government.”  
We can define this metric in different ways, but a simple one is Free Cash Flow : 
• Free Cash Flow  = Cash Flow from Operations (CFO) – Capital Expenditures (CapEx)  
There are other variations of Free Cash Flow, which we explore later in this course and the 
other written guides . 
But this initial definition is a good one because:  
• Everything in a company’s “Operating Activities” section is required  for its business – 
earning Net Income, paying for Inventory, collecting Receivables, etc.  
 
• But almost every line item within Investing and Financing Activities is “optional,” except 
for Capital Expenditures.  
CapEx is a required item because companies need buildings, factories, and equipment to house 
employees, manufacture products , and sell them to customers.  
Even companies that sell services or software need buildings and computer equipment, and 
spending on both of them is considered CapEx.  
Free Cash Flow lets us  quickly and easily assess a company's ability to generate cash flow 
from its business, including the  cost of servicing its Debt and other long -term funding.  
One important note – especially under IFRS – is that this definition assumes  that Cash Flow 
from Operations deducts Net Interest Expense, Preferred Dividends, Taxes, and all  Lease 
Expenses . 
So, if the company you’re analyzing has a CFO section that does not  do that, you will need to 
adjust it for comparability purposes.  
For example, under IFRS, you should remove the Lease Depreciation add -back in CFO  because 
it’s not a true  “non -cash expense .” 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
81 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The company still pays the full Lease Expense in cash; splitting it into Interest and Depreciation 
elements does not change that.  
Also, if CFO includes many items in the Non -Cash Adjustments section  besides D&A and 
Deferred Taxes , you may want to remove them to standardize the formula.  
Here’s a quick comparison of Free Cash Flow for Best Buy (a U.S. -based retailer) and Zendesk (a 
U.S.- based software company):  
 
For Best Buy, the interpretation is as follows:  
FCF is positive and growing, which is good, and the company doesn’t seem to be “playing 
games” by artificially cutting CapEx or changing its Working Capital to boost its FCF.  
In fact, the Change in Working Capital (“Change s in Operating Assets & Liabilities”) became 
negative  in Year 3, but FCF increased anyway.  
Revenue is also growing each year, so it seems like Best Buy has a healthy business whose FCF is 
based on growth in th at core business. 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
82 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For Zendesk, FCF is also positive and growing, but far more quickly than its Revenue Growth in 
two years.  
One reason is that the Change s in Operating Assets & Liabilities are much less positive in Year 3, 
so FCF gets less of a boost from that.  
But there’s another red flag here as well: Zendesk’s Net Income is very negative, while its FCF 
is positive.  Look at its statements, and you can quickly tell why:  
 
Generally, you want to see a positive and growing FCF . 
If FCF is negative, that means the company is not running a sustainable business  by itself  – it's 
relying on outside financing to stay afloat!  
That’s OK for short periods, such as the first few years of a startup’s existence, but if a company 
stays like that for a decade, it raises serious questions.  
If FCF is negative , the first step is to ask, “Why? Is it temporary or permanent? Are the losses 
decreasing as the company grows? ” 
If FCF is becoming more  negative as the company grows, stay away.  
If FCF is positive , you should also ask, “Why?” before assuming it’s a good thing.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
83 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example:  
• Is the company’s FCF growing because it’s capturing more of the market, selling more, 
and achieving higher margins due to economies of scale? This is good.  
 
• Is the company’s FCF growing because of creative cost- cutting, or because it’s reducing 
its annual CapEx spending? This is not so good.  
 
• Is the company’s FCF growing despite  falling sales, because it’s playing games with 
Working Capital or with CapEx and Depreciation? This is not good.  
In real life, you use Free Cash Flow  in the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) analysis for valuing 
companies, and also in the Leveraged Buyout (LBO) analysis for assessing the acquisition and 
sale of a company.  
You do not  necessarily use the type of Free Cash Flow (CFO – CapEx) described here, but you do 
use variations of it.  
Components of Free Cash Flow: Working Capital  
A big part of FCF is the company’s Net Income: what it earns from core -business activities and 
“side activities” after expenses , taxes , and the cost of long -term funding.  
Non -cash adjustments  and Capital Expenditures also factor in, but those are fairly 
straightforward to understand.  
One less straightforward part  is the company’s “ Change in Working Capital ,” otherwise known 
as “Changes in Operating Assets and Liabilities.”  
From the questions we’ve received over the years, it seems to be one of the most confusing 
concepts in the history of human civilization.  
But that’s not the case  – it’s just that Working Capital and the Change in Working Capital are 
poorly explained. 
Also, they rarely make a huge difference in financial modeling and valuation, so if you're 
obsessing over these concepts , you're probably over -thinking them . 
We care most about the Change in Working Capital , not Working Capital itself, a nd it all goes 
back to that valuation formula:  
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate - Cash Flow Growth Rate), where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
84 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Change in Working Capital tells you whether "Cash Flow" is likely to be greater than or 
less than the company's Net Income, and how much of a difference there may be. 
In most cases, the Change in WC follows a very obvious pattern (e.g., always positive as revenue 
grows) or no pattern at all . 
If it follows an obvious pattern, continue that pattern into the future; if not, just make sure it’s 
a low percentage of the Change in Revenue or Revenue.  
Traditionally, “Working Capital” is defined as “ Current Assets minus Current Liabilities ”: 
 
But this definition is not that useful because it’s not how companies calculate the Change in 
Working Capital on their Cash Flow Statements . 
A better definition of Working Capital  is Current Operational Assets – Current Operational 
Liabilities , which exclude s Cash, Financial Investments, and Debt . 
This definition also matches what companies show on their Cash Flow Statements:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
85 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
If a company has longer -term operational items, such as Long -Term Deferred Revenue, they 
may also be included in Working Capital. 
Target’s Working Capital in each year of this model is as follows:  
($2,874)   ($ 2,999)   ( $4,001)   ($ 3,518)   ($ 3,642)   ($ 3,751)   
($3,863)   ($ 3,960)  
Is it “good” or “bad” if Working Capital is positive or negative each year?  
You can’t say because you have to look at why  Working Capital is positive or negative . 
For example, it may be positive if a company has $100 in A ccounts Receivable , $100 in 
Inventory, and $500 in Deferred Revenue , because it means the company has collected a lot of 
cash upfront  before product/service delivery.  
Yes, Working Capital is ($300), but this company’s business model is strong.  
But if it has $100 in Accounts Receivable , $100 in Inventory, and $500 in Accounts Payable , 
that’s less positive because it means the company owes significant cash to suppliers.  
The Change in Working Capital  is what appears on the Cash Flow Statement, and it’s defined 
in a counterintuitive way:  
• Change in Working Capital  = Old Working Capital  – New Working Capital  
To understand why, pretend that Working Capital consists of only one item: Inventory.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
86 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If Inventory increases from $200 in Year 1 to $300 in Year 2, Working Capital also increases 
from $200 to $300.  
Therefore, the Change in Working Capital must be negative  and reduce cash flow  because the 
company had to spend cash to buy this Inventory!  
Yes, online definitions calculate the Change in WC in the opposite way, but those definitions do 
not match its presentation on the Cash Flow Statement . 
The Change in Working Capital tells you how much “Cash Flow” is likely to differ from Net 
Income, and in which direction.  
If it's negative , it reduces Cash Flow, reducing the company’s valuation.  
If it's positive , it increases Cash Flow,  also increasing the company’s valuation.  
The sign  depends on the company’s business policies. For example, many retailers have 
negative Change in Working Capital figures because they must purchase Inventory before they 
can sell anything to customers.  
On the other hand, many subscription software companies have positive Change in WC figures 
because they might collect cash upfront for months or years of their service before delivering it, 
which boosts Deferred Revenue.  
Note that in the historical periods, the Change in Working Capital does NOT match the 
changes calculated manually on the Balance Sheet: 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
87 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
This happens because c ompanies often group items differently on the statements, change 
accounting policies, and make acquisitions, and all those activities distort the numbers.  
Just follow the historical Cash Flow Statement numbers and move on with your life.  
Normally, you look at the Change in Working Capital relative to the company’s Revenue or 
Change in Revenue.  
The Change in Working Capital as a percentage of Revenue tells you ho w significant  it is for the 
company’s “Cash Flow .” 
And you normally project  the Change in WC based on a percentage of the Change in Revenue.  
For example, here’s a comparison of the Change in Working Capital for Best Buy and Zendesk:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
88 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Best Buy’s  Change in WC / Revenue is a very low percentage, which tells us that it’s not that 
important for the company.  
Interestingly, even though Best Buy is a retailer, its Change in WC is not  consistently negative, 
nor is it negative as a percentage of the Change in Revenue in most years.  
That’s probably because it has many other items within Working Capital that make as much, or 
more, of an impact than Inventories.  
For Zendesk, the Change in WC is more significant. As expected for a software company, it’s 
positive each year because of the continual increases in Deferred Revenue.  
For a growing software company, we expect AR and DR to increase each year, with AR reducing 
cash flow  and DR increasing it, and that is what happens here.  
To project  the Change in Working Capital for either company , we’d probably use a simple 
historical average based on Change in WC / Change in Revenue.  
This means that Change in WC / Change in Revenue for both companies should be in the 0 -10% 
range going forward.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #13 : Key Metrics and Ratios  
Once you have a company’s financial statements, you can calculate metrics and ratios  to 
analyze the company’s performance  in more detail.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
89 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These metrics and ratios  let you compare a company's financial performance to its past 
performance, and to that of other, similar companies to answer questions like:  
1) Which company is using its capital more efficiently?  
 
2) Which company is more dependent on Debt financing to grow?  
 
3) Which company is more capable of repaying its Debt, even if its sales decline?  
 
4) Which company is collecting cash more quickly, paying suppliers more quickly, or cycling 
through Inventory more quickly?  
Companies that use their capital more efficiently, that are not overly dependent on Debt, and 
that have the best cash -flow management  should be valued more highly than companies that 
are worse at all of those . 
While there are dozens, if not hundreds , of financial metrics, we focus on four primary groups  
when analyzing and valuing companies:  
1) “Cash Flow Proxy” Metrics  – EBIT and EBITDA (and variations, such as EBITDAR).  
 
2) Credit Metrics  – The Leverage Ratio (Total Debt / EBITDA) and the Interest Coverage 
Ratio (EBITDA / Interest Expense) and their variations.  
 
3) Returns -Based Metrics  – Return on Equity (ROE), Return on Assets (ROA), and Return on 
Invested Capital (ROIC).  
 
4) Cash Conversion Metrics  – Days Sales Outstanding, Days Inventory Outstanding, Days 
Payable Outstanding , and the Cash Conversion Cycle.  
We cover many other metrics and ratios (see the guide to Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and 
Valuation Multiples), but the ones above serve as the starting point.  
“Cash Flow Proxy” Metrics  
The most common ones here are EBIT (Earnings Before  Interest and Taxes)  and EBITDA 
(Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, and Depreciation).  
EBIT is simply Operating Income on the Income Statement, adjusted for any non -recurring or 
one-time charges (e.g., Impairments or Write -Downs if they’ve affected Operating Income).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
90 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
EBIT  is often a "proxy" for Free Cash Flow  because both metrics reflect some or all  of the impact 
of Capital Expenditures.  
FCF directly deducts CapEx, and EBIT indirectly deducts part of it by subtracting Depreciation.  
EBIT gives you a company’s core, recurring business profitability before the impact of capital 
structure and taxes. 
To calculate EBITDA , you start with EBIT and then add Depreciation & Amortization taken 
directly from the Cash Flow Statement, not the Income Statement . 
Remember that D&A could be embedded in various line items on the Income Statement, so you 
might not see the full amount there. Therefore, you must retrieve it from the CFS.  
EBITDA  is more of a "proxy" for Cash Flow from Operations  (CFO).  
Both EBITDA and CFO completely ignore CapEx and its after -effects (Depreciation).  
EBITDA gives you a company’s core, recurring business cash flow from operations before the 
impact of capital structure and taxes . 
With both these metrics, there are some complications under IFRS because of Operating Leases  
(see the guide to Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and Valuation Multiples).  
Credit Metrics  
The two most important credit metrics are the Leverage Ratio  and the Interest Coverage Ratio . 
The Leverage Ratio (Total Debt / EBITDA)  tells you h ow much Debt a company has , relative to 
its ability to repay that Debt. 
Higher numbers are  riskier, and lower numbers are less risky.  
The Interest Coverage Ratio (EBITDA / Interest Expense)  tells you h ow easily the company could 
pay for its current interest expense on the Debt . 
Higher  numbers are better because they indicate there’s more of a "buffer" in case the business 
suffers and profits fall.  
Returns -Based Metrics  
ROA  (Return on Assets) , ROE  (Return on Equity) , and ROIC (Return on Invested Capital) all 
measure how efficiently  a company is using its "capital" or assets to generate income . 
“Capital” could refer to Equity, Equity + Debt, or Equity + Debt + Preferred Stock + Other 
Funding Sources.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
91 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The main difference is that Equity may be generated internally or raised externally, while 
sources such as Debt and Preferred Stock must be raised from outside investors.  
The calculations are as follows:  
• ROE  = Net Income (to Common) / Average (Common) Shareholders' Equity  
• ROA  = Net Income (to Common) / Average Total Assets  
• ROIC  = NOPAT / Average Invested Capital  
In the ROIC calculation, NOPAT equals EBIT * (1 - Tax Rate) because it reflect s income available 
to *all* investors, after taxes.  
Therefore, it must exclude Net Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends.  
That also explains why it pairs with Invested Capital (Equity + Debt + Preferred Stock + Other 
Investor Groups).  
There is some disagreement about whether or not you should subtract Cash in the Invested 
Capital calculation and add items like Operating Leases . 
For companies that follow U.S. GAAP, we normally use the standard definition above.  
Cash Conversion Metrics  
These metrics all measure how quickly it takes a company to collect receivables, sell inventory, 
or pay the amounts it owes to suppliers.  
Similar to superheroes or videogame bosses, three of these metrics can combine  into a “super 
metric” as well:  
• Days Sales Outstanding  (DSO)  = Accounts Receivable / Revenue * Days in Year  
• Days Inventory Outstanding  (DIO)  = Inventory / COGS * Days in Year  
• Days Payable Outstanding  (DPO) = Accounts Payable / COGS * Days in Year 
You could use the average AR, average Inventory, or average AP over the period as well.  
It doesn’t make a huge difference if these numbers stay in similar ranges , and the company is 
only growing at a moderate pace.  
Together, these metrics create the “Cash Conversion Cycle” (CCC):  DIO + DSO – DPO  
This CCC tells you how long it takes a company to convert its Inventory and other short- term, 
operational Assets, such as Accounts Receivable, into cash flows.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
92 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Lower numbers are better  because they mean the company is selling its Inventory and 
collecting Cash from customers more quickly.  
Here’s how Best Buy and Target compare across these metrics:  
 
One final note: these companies are both mature, offline retailers with low -single -digit growth 
rates, so this comparison is valid.  
You can’t use these metrics to compare completely different types of companies, such as an 
industrials conglomerate and a biotech startup.  
Return to Top . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
93 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 14: How to Answer Accounting Interview Questions  
Some of the most common interview questions are ones about how a change affects the three 
financial statements.  
For example:  
• “Depreciation goes up by $10. What happens on the statements?”  
• “A company buys $100 of Inventory. What happens on the statements?”  
• “A company sells a factory listed at $100 on its Balance Sheet for $120. What happens 
on the statements?”  
For all these questions, you should look at our 3 -statement “interview question” model.  
The best way to understand these changes is to enter them in Excel and see firsthand how the 
statements change.  
That said, there are also rules of thumb  that you can use for the major categories : 
1. Changes to Cash Items on the Income Statement. 
2. Changes to Operational Items on the Balance Sheet . 
3. Changes to Non -Cash Items on the Income Statement. 
4. Changes to Leases on the Balance Sheet.  
5. Changes to Non -Operational Balance Sheet or Cash Flow Statement Items . 
6. Multi -Step Scenarios and Changes . 
In the sections below, we’ll explain these categories . 
You should move  in the following order when answering these questions:  
1. Explain how the Income Statement changes, if at all.  
2. Explain how the Cash Flow Statement changes, if at all  (including changes in Deferred 
Taxes).  
3. Explain how the Balance Sheet changes and why it still balances, i.e. , why Assets still 
equal Liabilities + Equity.  
1) Changes to Cash Items on the Income Statement 
For example, what happens if a company’s R evenue increases by $100, or its COGS or 
Operating Expenses increase by $100?  
This category is easy because nothing on the Cash Flow Statement changes except for Net 
Income at the top and Cash at the bottom.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
94 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if Revenue increases by $100, and the Tax Rate is 25%:  
• On the  IS, Revenue is up by $100, so Pre -Tax Income is up by $100, and Net Income is up 
by $ 75. 
 
• On the CFS , Net Income is up by $ 75, so Cash at the bottom is up by $ 75. 
 
• On the BS , Cash is up by $ 75 on the Assets side, CSE is up by $ 75 on the other side, and 
nothing else changes, so both sides are up by $ 75 and balance.  
If expenses increased by $100, Net Income, Cash, and CSE would all decrease by $ 75 instead. 
Here’s a summary : 
• Examples:  Revenue, COGS, Operating Expenses, and Interest Income / (Expense) . 
 
• What Changes as a RESULT of These Items Changing:  Pre-Tax Income, Net Income, 
Cash, and Common Shareholders’ Equity (CSE).  
 
• How the Balance Sheet Balances:  Cash and CSE both change . 
 
2) Changes to Operational Items on the Balance Sheet  
These consist of items like Inventory, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, Accrued 
Expenses, Prepaid Expenses, and Deferred Revenue, known collectively as “Working Capital.”  
The main differences compared with the first category are:  
1) Changes to these items will affect something on the Balance Sheet  besides Cash and 
Common Shareholders’ Equity.  
 
2) Increases and decreases work differently  with  these items.  
To figure out what happens, ask yourself two simple questions : “Has the company  delivered  the 
product or service to the customer? Or , has someone else  delivered  something to the company 
that it used in this period? ” 
If so, something on the Income Statement will change. If not, nothing will change.  
Consider Accounts Receivable (AR) . If AR increases , it means the company delivered a product 
or service and is waiting for the cash. So, Revenue increases  on the Income Statement.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
95 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But if AR decreases , it means the company has collected the cash without delivering anything – 
so this change won’t show up on the Income Statement.  
When AR decr eases, it must have increased in a previous period due to a product/service 
delivery ; here’s the first step of the process  for a $100 increase in AR : 
 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is down by $25, and AR is up by $100, so the Assets side is up by 
$75.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
96 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the L&E side, CSE is up by $75 because of the increased Net Income, so both sides balance.  
Here’s an excerpt  of the Balance Sheet:  
 
In the next step of this process – the cash collection – nothing changes on the Income 
Statement  because no additional delivery has taken place.  
Instead, the increase in AR on the CFS is reversed, so Cash now increases by $75.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
97 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the Balance Sheet , Cash is up by $75, and AR returns to its original level (since the increase 
is reversed), which means the Assets side is still up by $75, matching the increase on  the L&E 
side. 
Here are the Cash Flow Statement and Balance Sheet in this second step:  
The intuition is that over both steps, the company records $100 in Revenue and pays $25 in 
Taxes on it, so its Cash and CSE both increase by $75.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
98 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We’re not going to show  Excel screenshots for every possible change; please use the Excel file 
to try that on your own.  
Here’s a summary of  the most common items:  
• Accounts Receivable  
o Increases:  IS, BS, and CFS all change; represents recorded revenue . 
o Decreases:  Only the BS and CFS change; represents cash collection . 
• Prepaid Expenses  
o Increases:  Only the BS and CFS change; represents advance  payment s for 
expenses not yet incurred . 
o Decreases:  IS, BS, and CFS all change; represents recognition of an expense 
previously paid in cash.  
• Inventory  
o Increases:  Only the BS and CFS change; represents spending on parts and 
materials  that have not yet been delivered to customers.  
o Decreases:  IS, BS, and CFS all change; represents recognition of an expense 
previously paid in cash. This one is accompanied by an increase in Revenue to 
represent the sale of the goods , so Revenue and COGS on the IS change.  
• Accrued Expenses and Accounts Payable  
o Increases:  IS, BS, and CFS all change; represents recognition of an expense that 
has not yet been paid in cash (see the important note at the bottom).  
o Decreases:  Only the BS and CFS change; represents cash payment of an expense 
that was previously recognized.  
• Deferred Revenue 
o Increases:  Only the BS and CFS change; represents cash collection for  sales that 
cannot yet be recognized as revenue . 
o Decreases:  IS, BS, and CFS all change; represents recognition of revenue  that has 
already been collected  in cash . 
We strongly recommend using the 3 -statement “interview question” model to understand 
these questions.  
One Final Note:  An increase in Accounts Payable doesn’t necessarily  correspond to an expense 
on the IS  increasing.  
For example, if the company purchases Inventory on credit, Inventory on the Assets side and AP 
on the L&E side will both increase, and nothing on the Income Statement will change.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
99 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
That’s because in this case, the company has not yet delivered the product s to customers , so 
nothing on the IS can change.  
 
3) Changes to Non -Cash Items on the Income Statement 
These changes follow a set pattern: Pre -Tax Income and Net Income change, but you reverse  
the chan ge on the Cash Flow Statement  since it’s non -cash.  
Cash and CSE change, and then something else on the Balance Sheet also changes.  
The classic example here is Depreciation , but they could ask about plenty of other , similar 
items: Amortization, Stock -Based Compensation, or Asset Write -Down s, for example.  
Here’s a list of non -cash items and their corresponding Balance Sheet  line items : 
• Depreciation – Net PP&E.  
• Amortization – Other Intangible Assets.  
• Stock -Based Compensation – CSE.  
• Gains / (Losses) on PP&E – Net PP&E.  
• Write -Downs  and Impairments  – The Asset  you are writing down  or impairing.  
Some of these items, such as SBC, A mortization, Write -Downs, and I mpairment s, are not 
deductible for Cash -Tax purposes.  
So, instead of saying that Cash increases, it’s more accurate to say that the Deferred Tax Asset 
increases . 
If you feel comfortable explaining this point, you can give the “proper” walkthrough.  
If not, try the simplified one first, and if they ask about taxes, mention that you understand 
how, in reality, Cash does not change due to the lack of Cash- Tax savings.  
The classic question of Depreciation increasing by $100 looks like this:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
100 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
In an interview, you could walk through it like this : “On the Income Statement, Pre -Tax Income 
falls by $10 0, and Net Income falls by $ 75, assuming a tax rate of 25%.  
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is down by $ 75, but you add back the $10 0 in 
Depreciation, so C ash is up by $ 25 at the bottom.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
101 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the Balance Sheet, C ash is up by $ 25, PP&E  is 
down by $10 0, and so the Assets side is down by 
$75. 
On the other side, Common Shareholders’ Equity  
is down by $ 75 because Net Income was down 
by $ 75, so both sides balance.”  
The intuition is that the Cash balance increases 
because of the $25 in tax savings from this 
Depreciation.  
If this non- cash expense were not Cash -Tax 
Deductible, then the Net DTA, rather than Cash, 
would increase by $25.  
• Examples:  Depreciation ( Net PP&E), 
Amortization (Other Intangible Assets), Stock -
Based Compensation ( CSE), Gains / (Losses) on 
PP&E ( Net PP&E), Write -Downs (The Asset you 
are writing down), and Impairment s (The Asset 
you are impairing).  
 
• What Changes as a RESULT of These Items 
Changing:  Pre-Tax Income, Net Income, Cash, 
CSE, Something Else on the Balance Sheet , and 
the DTA for Non-Cash -Tax-Deductible expenses 
(if you give the proper tax treatment).  
 
• How the Balance Sheet Balances:  Cash and CSE change, another Asset or L&E line item 
changes, and the DTA may change for certain non- cash expenses.  
 
4) Changes to Leases on the Balance Sheet  
With these questions, you should keep in mind the following  points:  
• For all types of leases under all accounting systems , when the lease is first signed, the 
Lease Asset and the Lease Liability both increase by the same amount on the Balance 
Sheet  (based on the Present Value of future lease payments).  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
102 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• For Finance Leases under both accounting systems and Operating Leases under IFRS , 
companies record Interest Expense and Depreciation on the Lease, with Interest 
Expense equal to Discount Rate * Lease Liability, and Depreciation equal to Initial Lease 
Asset / Lease Term. The Lease Principal Repayment on the CFS equals the Cash Lease 
Expense  – Interest Expense.  
 
• For Operating Leases under U.S. GAAP , companies record a simple Rental Expense on 
the Income Statement, but they  still “calculate” Interest Expense, Depreciation, and 
Lease Principal Repayment . Interest Expense = Discount Rate * Lease Liability . 
Depreciation = Cash Lease Expense – Interest Expense. And Lease Principal Repayment = 
Straight -Line Rental Expense on IS – Interest Expense.  
Here’s a simple example of a 10 -year, $400 Finance Lease where the company pays $50 in rent 
each year and uses a 5% Discount Rate.  
That means an Interest Expense of 5% * $400 = $20 in the first year and a constant 
Depreciation of $400 / 10 = $40 each year.  
The Lease Principal Repayment equals the Cash 
Rent of $50 minus the Interest Expense of $20, so 
it’s $30 in the first year . 
Pre-Tax Income on the Income Statement falls by 
$60, and Net Income decreases by $ 45 at a 25% tax 
rate.  
The Interest vs. Depreciation split does not matter 
because they make the same impact on the IS.  
There may be a very small Book vs. Cash Tax 
difference here, but it’s so tiny that you can ignore 
it in interview questions.  
Here’s what the Cash Flow Statement and Balance 
Sheet look like:  
 
 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
103 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Net Income is down by $ 45 on the CFS, you add back the $ 40 of Depreciation, but then you 
subtract  the $30 Lease Principal Repayment in CFF, so Cash at the bottom is down by $35.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
104 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The “Additions to Finance Lease Assets ” and the “Issue Finance Leases” lines offset each other.  
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is down by $3 5, and Finance Lease Assets are up by $400 – $40 = 
$360, so the Assets side is up by $325.  
On the L&E side, the Finance Lease Liabilities are up by $400 – $30 = $370, and CSE is down by 
$45 due to the reduced Net Income, so both sides are up by $325 and balance.  
There’s no real “summary” for these types of questions because they’re always the same: you 
need to understand how leases work in both accounting systems . 
 
5) Changes to Non -Operational Balance Sheet or Cash Flow Statement Items  
These items are simple b ecause there are no immediate Income Statement changes . 
There’s a simple cash inflow or outflow on the Cash Flow Statement, and both Cash and the 
corresponding Balance Sheet line item change.  
Here are examples of these changes : 
• Capital Expenditures  – PP&E and Cash will change.  
• Purchasing or Selling Financial Investments  – Financial Investments (may be short -term 
or long -term) and Cash will change.  
• Selling  PP&E  for Book Value  – PP&E and Cash will change.  
• Raising or Paying Off Debt  – Debt and Cash will change.  
• Raising or Paying Off Preferred Stock  – Preferred Stock and Cash will change.  
• Issuing Common Stock  – CSE and Cash will change.  
• Repurchasing Common Stock  – CSE and Cash will change.  
• Issuing Common Dividends  – CSE and Cash will change.  
• Acquisitions  – Acquired Assets, Goodwill, Other Intangibles, and Cash will change.  
• Deferred Taxes  – The Deferred Tax Asset or Liability and Cash will change.  
• FX Rate Effects  – CSE and Cash will change.  
There are a few “borderline” items, such as Preferred Dividends (they don’t affect Net Income, 
but they do  reduce Net Income to Common), but most of these changes are simple.  
Also, note that in most cases, there is an “after -effect ” following these changes,  such as 
Depreciation after CapEx spending, or Interest Expense after a Debt Issuance.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
105 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
6) Multi -Step Scenarios and Changes on the Financial Statements  
“Multi -step scenarios” in interviews are usually not complicated as long as you understand each 
change individually.  Examples of multi -step scenarios include:  
• Buying Inventory (with cash or credit), turning it into products, and selling and delivering 
it to customers.  
 
• Issuing Debt to pay for Common Stock Repurchases ( stock buybacks).  
 
• Buying factories with Debt or Equity and operating them over a year, with a sale or 
write -down at the end.  
 
• Issuing Debt and Equity to acquire other companies.  
With these types of questions, ask the interview right away if they want you to go through all 
the changes CUMULATIVELY or each change SEQUENTIALLY.  
It’s not reasonable to walk through everything cumulatively  in complex scenarios , but it is 
reasonable for simpler ones, such as the first two examples above.  
Let’s take the main example covered in the course:  
“A company purchases $200 of factories with Debt on January 1, and it operates them for an 
entire year while paying interest and principal on its Debt  and depreciating the factories.  
At the end of Year 1, it decides it no longer needs the factories because its new product line  has 
not generated much in pre -orders.  
So, it decides to sell its factories for $220, a 10% premium to the original purchase price, and it 
uses the proceeds  to repay the remaining Debt principal.  
Walk through the statements in EACH STEP of the process separately, and assume Depreciation 
for 10% of the initial purchase price, an Interest Rate of 10% on the Debt, 5% Principal 
Repayment, and no additional revenue or expenses from the factories in Year 1.”  
The first step – the initial purchase – is easy because nothing appears on the Income Statement. 
The $200 of CapEx and $200 Debt Issuance  both appear on the Cash Flow Statement, offsetting 
each other, and Cash at the bottom is unchanged.  
On the Balance Sheet, PP&E is up by $200 on the Assets side, and Debt is up by $200 on the L&E 
side, so the BS remains in balance.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
106 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In the second step  – what happens after a year of 
owning these factories – you include the Interest 
Expense, the Depreciation, and the Debt Principal 
Repayment.  
All of these  changes correspond to THIS  period, 
but only the Depreciation  and Interest Expense  
show up on the Income Statement. 
The Depreciation is 10% * $200 = $20, the Interest 
Expense is 10% * $200 = $20, and the Debt 
Principal Repayment is 5% * $200 = $10.  
So, Pre -Tax Income falls by $40 on the Income 
Statement, and Net Income is down by $30 at a 
25% tax rate.  
We’ll assume no Book vs. Cash Tax differences 
here and move to the CFS . 
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is down 
by $30, you add back the $20 of Depreciation, and 
you show a negative $10 for the Debt Principal Repayment, so Cash at the bottom is down by 
$20.  
And then on the Balance Sheet, Cash is down by $20 on the Assets side, and Net PP&E is down 
by $20 from the Depreciation, so Total Assets are down by $40.  
On the other side, Debt is down by $10 due to the Principal Repayment, and CSE is down by $30 
due to the Net Income reduction, so both sides are down by $40 and balance.  
Here’s what it looks like:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
107 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The intuition is that Cash is down by $20 rather than $50 because of $10 in tax savings from the 
Depreciation + Interest, and the fact that Depreciation is non -cash . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
108 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For the final step in this process – the sale of the factory for $220 – remember that:  
• The Net PP&E is down to $180 by the end of the year, so there will be a Gain of $40.  
• The Debt Principal is down to $190, so there will be a Principal Repayment of $190. 
We prefer to walk through this step in isolation  because doing it with all the other changes 
above will make it difficult to remember all the numbers.  
This $ 40 is a Realized Gain, so it always 
appears on the Income Statement, increasing 
Pre-Tax Income by $40 and Net Income by 
$30 at a 25% tax rate.  
Realized Gains and Losses rarely, if ever, 
affect Book vs. Cash Taxes, so we ignore any 
possible Deferred Tax impact  here.  
Moving on, Net Income is up by $30 on the 
CFS, but we reverse the $40 Gain by 
subtracting it and then “reclassify it ” under 
CFI. 
We also put the $180 Book Value of Net PP&E  
under CFI  so that the Total Proceeds of $2 20 
show up there.  
And then we record a Debt Principal 
Repayment of $190 under CFF.  
As a result, Cash at the bottom is up by $20 
($30 – $40 + $220 – $190 = $20).  
On the B alance Sheet , Cash is up by $20, and 
Net PP&E decreases by its Book Value of $180, so Total Assets are down by $160.  
On the other side, Debt is down by $190, and CSE is up by $30, so the L&E side is down by $160, 
and both sides balance.  
Here’s what it looks like on the CFS and BS:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
109 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Return to Top . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
110 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
You NEED to know accounting to have a shot at winning job offers.  
Accounting interview questions come up not just in investment banking interviews, but also in 
interviews for private equity, corporate development, investor relations, and many other roles.  
Many bankers also have weak knowledge  of accounting, so these questions are a quick way to 
evaluate how much you understand vs. how much you’ve memorized . 
 
Conceptual Accounting Questions  
1. What are the three financial statements, and why do we need them?  
The three main financial statements are the Income Statement, Balance  Sheet , and Cash Flow 
Statement.  
The Income Statement shows the company’s revenue , expenses, and taxes over a period  and 
ends with Net Income, which represents the company’s after -tax profits.  
The Balance Sheet shows the company’s Assets – its resources – as well as how it paid for those 
resources – its Liabilities and Equity – at a specific point in time. Assets must equal Liabilities 
plus Equity.  
The Cash Flow Statement begins with Net Income, adjusts for non- cash items and changes in 
operating assets and liabilities (working capital), and then shows the company’s C ash Flow from 
Investing and Financing activities; the last lines show the net change in cash and the company’s 
ending cash balance.  
You need the financial statements because there’s always a difference between the company’s 
Net Income and the real cash flow it generates, and the statements let you estimate the cash 
flow more accurately.  
 
2. How do the financial statements link together?  
To link the statements, make Net Income from the Income Statement the top line of the Cash 
Flow Statement.  
Then, adjust this Net Income number for non -cash items such as Depreciation & Amortization.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
111 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Next, reflect changes to operational  Balance Sheet items such as Accounts Receivable, which 
may increase or reduce the company’s cash flow. 
This gets you to Cash Flow from Operations.  
Next, include investing and financing activities, which may increase or reduce cash flow,  and 
sum up Cash Flow from Operations, Investing, and Financing to get the net change in cash at 
the bottom.  
Cash at the bottom of the CFS becomes Cash on the Balance Sheet, and Net Income, Stock 
Issuances, Stock Repurchases, Stock -Based Compensation , and Dividends link into Common 
Shareholders’ Equity.  
Next, link the separate line items on the CFS to their corresponding Balance Sheet line items; 
for example, CapEx and Depreciation link into Net PP&E.  
When you’re on the Assets side of the Balance Sheet, and you’re linking to the Cash Flow 
Statement, subtract CFS links ; add them on the L&E side.  
Finally, c heck that Assets equals Liabilities plus Equity at the end. 
 
3. What’s the most important financial statement?  
The Cash Flow Statement is the most important single statement because it tells you how much 
cash  a company is generating , and valuation is based on cash flow.  
The Income Statement includes  non-cash revenue , expenses , and taxes, and excludes  cash 
spending on major items such as Capital Expenditures, so it does not accurately represent a 
company’s cash flow.  
 
4. Could you use only two financial statements to construct the third one? If not, why not?  
It depends on which two statements  you pick. For example, y ou could use the Income 
Statement and “Starting” and “Ending” Balance Sheets to construct the Cash Flow Statement, 
but there may be ambiguity (e.g., you know how Net PP&E changes, but you’re not sure of the 
CapEx vs. Depreciation split).  
Potentially, you could also use the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement to move from 
the “Starting” Balance Sheet to the “Ending” one (but also with some ambiguity).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
112 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
However, it would be nearly impossible to construct the Income Statement starting with just 
the Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement because there aren’t enough direct links.  
 
5. How might the financial statements of a company in the U.K. or Germany be different from 
those of a company based in the U.S.?  
Income Statements and Balance Sheets tend to be similar across different regions, but 
companies  that use IFRS often start the Cash Flow Statement  with something other  than Net 
Income: Operating Income, Pre -Tax Income, or if they are using the Direct Method for creating 
the CFS, Cash Received or Cash Paid.  
IFRS -based companies also tend to place items in more “random” locations on the CFS, so you 
may need to rearrange it.  
Finally, the Operating Lease Expense is split into Interest and Depreciation elements under IFRS, 
but it’s recorded as a simple Rental Expense under U.S. GAAP.  
 
6. What should you do if a  company’s Cash Flow Statement starts with something OTHER 
than Net Income, such as Operating Income or Cash Received?  
For modeling and valuation purposes, you should convert  this Cash Flow Statement into one 
that starts with Net Income and makes the standard adjustments.  
Large companies should provide reconciliation s that show  you how to move from Net Income 
or Operating Income to Cash Flow from Operations and that list the Change in Working Capital 
and other non- cash adjustments.  
If the company does NOT  provide that reconciliation, you might hav e to use the CFS in its 
original format  and use simple r methods to project it.  
 
7. How do you know when a revenue or expense line item should appear on the Income 
Statement?  
To appear on the Income Statement, an item must:  
1) Correspond 100% to the period shown – Revenue and expenses are based on  the 
delivery  of products or services , so an item delivered in Year 1 can count only in Year 1.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
113 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
And if a company buys a factory, it can’t list that purchase on the Income Statement 
because it will be useful for many years.  It corresponds to more than just this period. 
 
2) Affect the business income available to common shareholders (Net Income  to 
Common ) – If something does not affect the owners  of the business, it should not 
appear on the Income Statement.  
The second point explains why Preferred Dividends appear on the Income Statement: they 
reduce the after -tax profits that could potentially go to common shareholders.  
 
8. What’s the difference between Assets, Liabilities, and Equity line items on the Balance 
Sheet?  
There’s no precise, universal definition, but an Asset  is something that will result in a future 
benefit  for the company, such as future cash flow, business growth, or tax savings.  
A Liability or Equity line item  is something that will result in a future obligation for the 
company, such as a cash payment  or the requirement to deliver a product.  
Liabilities are usually related to external parties  – lenders, suppliers, or the government – while 
Equity line items are usually related to the company’s internal operations . 
Both Liabilities and Equity act as funding sources for the company’s resources (Assets), but 
Equity line items tend not to result in direct cash outflow s in the same way as Liabilities.  
 
9. How can you tell whether or not an item should appear on the Cash Flow Statement? 
You list an item on the Cash Flow Statement if:  
1) It has already appeared on the Income Statement and affected Net Income, but it’s non-
cash , so you need to adjust to determine the c ompany’s real cash flow; OR 
 
2) It has NOT  appeared on the Income Statement, and it DOES  affect the company’s cash 
balance.  
In category #1 are  items such as Depreciation and Amortization; C ategory  #2 includes items in 
Cash Flow from Investing and Financing, such as Capital Expenditures and Dividends.  
Changes in Working Capital could fall into either  category (e.g., an increase in AR is in category 
#1, but a decrease in AR is in category #2).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
114 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
10. A company uses cash accounting (i.e., it only records revenue when it is received in cash 
and only records expenses when they are paid  in cash) rather than accrual accounting.  
A customer buys a TV from the company “on account”  (i.e., without paying upfront in c ash) 
and receives the TV right away.  How would the company record this transaction differently 
from a company that uses accrual accounting?  
Under cash accounting, the R evenue would not show up until the company collects the cash 
from the customer – at which point it would increase Revenue on the Income Statement (and 
Pre-Tax Income, Net Income, etc.)  and Cash on the Balance Sheet.  
Under accrual accounting, the sale woul d show up as Revenue right away, but instead of 
increasing Cash on the Balance Sheet, it would increase Accounts Receivable at first. Then, once 
the company collects the cash payment from the customer, Accounts Receivable would 
decrease , and Cash would increase.  
 
11. A company begins offering 12- month installment plans to customers  so that they can pay 
for $1,000 products over a year instead of 100% upfront. How will its cash flow change?  
In the short term , the company’s cash flow is likely to decrease because  some customers will no 
longer pay 100% upfront. 
So, a $1,000 payment in Month 1 now turns into $83 in Month 1, $83 in Month 2, and so on.   
The long -term impact depends on how much sales grow as a result of this change.  
If sales grow substantially , that might be enough to offset the longer cash -collection  process 
and increase the company’s overall cash flow.  
 
12. A company decides to prepay its monthly rent by paying for an entire year upfront in 
cash, as the property owner has offered it a 10% discount for doing so.  
Will this prepayment boost the company’s cash flow?  
In the short term, no, because the company is now paying 12 * Monthly Rent in a single month 
rather than making one cash payment per month.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
115 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the Income Statement in Month 1, the company will still record only the Monthly Rent for 
that month. But on the Cash Flow Statement, it will record –12 * Monthly Rent under “Change 
in Prepaid Expenses” to represent the cash outflow. 
A 10% discount represents just over one month of rent, so the company’s cash flow in Month 1 
will decrease substantially.  
Over an entire year, however, this prepayment will improve the company’s cash flow because 
there will be no additional cash rental payments  after Month 1 , and the total amount of rent 
paid in cash will be 10% less by the end of the year.  
 
13. Your friend is analyzing a company and says that you always have to look at the Cash Flow 
Statement to find t he full amount of Depreciation.  Is he right?  
Yes, your friend is correct. This happens  because companies often embed  Depreciation within 
other line items  on the Income Statement,  such as COGS and Operating Expenses . 
For example, employees in marketing, research, and customer support might all be using 
computers, so  the Depreciation of computers  would be embedded in expense categories like 
Sales & Marketing, Research & Development, and General & Administrative.  
 
14. A company collects cash payments from customers for a monthly subscription service one 
year in advance. Why do companies do this, and what is the cash flow impact?  
A company collect s cash payments for a monthly service long in advance if it has the market 
and pricing power to do so.  Because of the time value of money, it’s better to collect cash today 
rather than several months or a year into the future.  
This practice  always boosts a company’s cash flow. It corresponds to Deferred Revenue, and on 
the CFS, an increase in Deferred Revenue is a positive entry that boosts a company’s cash flow.  
When this cash is finally recognized  as Revenue, Deferred Revenue declines, which appears as a 
negative entry on the CFS.  
 
15. Why is Accounts Receivable (AR)  an Asset, but Deferred Revenue (DR) a Liability?  
AR is an Asset because it provides a future benefit to the company – the receipt of additional 
cash from customers in the future.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
116 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
DR is a Liability because it results in future obligations for the company. The company has 
already collected all the cash  associated with the sale , so now it must deliver the product or 
service, and it must spend something to do that.  
AR and DR are the opposites  of each other: AR has not yet been collected in cash  but has been 
delivered , whereas DR has  been collected in cash, but has not yet been delivered . 
 
16. How are Prepaid Expenses, Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses different, and why 
are Prepaid Expenses an Asset?  
Prepaid Expenses have already  been paid in cash but have not  yet been incurred as expenses, 
so they have not appeared on the Income Statement.  
When they finally appear on the Income Statement, they’ll effectively be “non -cash expense s” 
that reduce  the company’s taxes, which makes them an Asset.  
By contrast, Accounts Payable have not yet  been paid in cash . 
When the company finally pays them, its Cash balance  will decrease , which makes AP a Liability.  
Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses work the same way, but Accounts Payable is used for 
specific items with invoices (e.g., legal bills), while Accrued Expenses is used for monthly, 
recurring items without invoices (e.g., utilities).  
Accrued Expenses almost always result in an Income Statement expense before being paid in 
cash, and Accounts Payable often do as well.  
However, in some cases, Accounts Payable may correspond to items that have not  yet 
appeared on the Income Statement , such as purchases of Inventory made on credit.  
 
17. Your CFO wants to start paying employees mostly in Stock -Based Compensation, under 
the logic that it will reduce the company’s ta xes, but not “cost it” anything in cash.  
Is the CFO correct ? And how does Stock -Based Compensation impact the statements?  
The CFO is correct on a superficial level, but not in reality.  
First, the full amount of Stock -Based Compensation is not deductible for Cash- Tax purposes 
when it is initially granted in most countries, so even if Book Taxes decrease, Cash Taxes may 
not change at all.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
117 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The eventual tax deduction will take place much further into the future when employees 
exercise their options and/or receive their shares.  
But the other problem with the CFO’s claim is that Stock- Based Compensation creates 
additional shares, diluting existing investors and, therefore, “ costing ” the company something.  
That makes it quite different from non- cash expenses  that do not change the company’s capital 
structure, such as Depreciation and Amortization.  
 
18. A junior accountant in your department asks about the different ways to fund the 
company’s operations via external sources and how they impact the financial statements. 
What do you say?  
The two main methods of funding a company’s operations with outside money are Debt  and 
Equity . Debt is initially cheaper for most  companies, so most  companies prefer to use D ebt… up 
to a reasonable level.  
To do this, the company must be able to service its Debt by paying for the interest expense and 
possible principal repayments; if it can’t do that, it must use Equity instead.  
Both Equity and Debt issuances show up only on the Cash Flow Statement initially (in Cash Flow 
from Financing), and they boost the company’s C ash balance.  
With Equity, the company’s share count increases immediately after issuance, which means 
that existing investors get diluted (i.e., they own a smaller percentage of the company).  
With Debt, the company must pay interest, which will be recorded on its Income Statement, 
reducing its Net Income  and Cash , and it must eventually repay the full balance.  
 
19. Your company decides to sell equipment for a market value of $85. The equipment was 
listed  at $100 on your company’s Balance Sheet, so you have to record a Loss of $15 on the 
Income Statement, which gets reversed as a non -cash expense on the Cash Flow Statement. 
Why is this Loss considered a “ non-cash expense ”? 
This Loss is a non -cash expense because you haven’t “lost” anything in cash in the current 
period.  
When you sell equipment for $85, you get $85 in cash from the buyer.  It’s not as if you’ve “lost” 
or “spent” $15 in cash because you sold the equipment at a reduced price.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
118 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Loss  means that you spent more than $85 to buy this equipment in a prior period . 
But non -cash adjustments are based  on what happens in the CURRENT PERIOD . 
 
20. Your company owns an old factory that’s currently listed at $1,000 on its Balance Sheet. 
Why would it choose to “write down” this factory’s value, and what is the impact on the 
financial statements?  
A company might  write down  an Asset if its value has declined substantially, and its current 
Book Value ( the number on the Balance Sheet) is no longer accurate.  
For example, maybe the factory is damaged by a hurricane, or new technology makes the 
factory obsolete.  
On the statements, you record this write -down as an expense on the Income Statement, but 
you add it back as a non -cash expense on the Cash Flow Statement.  
Typically, these write -downs are not  deductible for Cash- Tax purposes, so you also record a 
negative adjustment under Deferred Taxes on the CFS.  
Net PP&E decreases , and the Deferred Tax Asset increases. On the L&E side of the Balance 
Sheet, Common Shareholders’ Equity decrease s due to the reduced Net Income.  
 
21. The CFO of your firm recently announced plans to purchase “financial investments” 
(stocks and bonds) . Why would she want to do this, and how will this activity affect the 
statements?  
A company might purchase financial investments if it has excess C ash and cannot think of other 
ways to use it.  
For example, the company can’t hire more employees, buy more equipment or factories, or 
acquire other companies, and it also doesn’t want to issue Dividends to investors, repurchase 
stock, or repay Debt.  
The initial purchase of these investments will show up only on the Cash Flow Statement (in 
Cash Flow from Investing) and will reduce the company’s cash flow.  
Afterward, the Interest Income earned on these investments will appear on the Income 
Statement and boost the company’s Pre -Tax Income, Net Income, and its Cash balance.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
119 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
22. Could a company have negative Common Shareholders’ Equity  (CSE) on its Balance Sheet ? 
If no, why not? If yes, what would it mean? 
Yes, it could. Just think about the main items that link into CSE: Net Income and Dividends. If a 
company’s Net Income is repeatedly negative, CSE will eventually turn negative.  
Negative Common Shareholders’ Equity is almost always a negative sign because it means the 
company has been unprofitable , repeatedly, or it has issued too much in Dividends or 
repurchased too many shares.  
It’s more acceptable  for tech and biotech startups that lose significant money in their early 
years , so you will see negative CSE figures there, but eventually , they should turn positive.  
 
23. Your  firm recently acquired another company for $1,000 and created Goodwill of $400 
and Other Intangible Assets of $200 on the Balance Sheet. A junior accountant in your 
department asks you why the company did this – how would you respond?  
You need to create Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets after an acquisition takes place to 
ensure that the Balance Sheet balances.  
In an acquisition, you write down the seller’s Common Shareholders’ Equity and then combine 
its Assets and Liabilities with those of the acquirer.  
If you’ve paid exactly  what the seller’s CSE is worth – e.g., you paid $1,000 in cash , and the 
seller has $1,000 in CSE , then there are no problems.  
The combined C ash balance decrease s by $1,000, and so does the combined CSE.  
However, in real life, acquirers almost always pay premiums  for target companies , which 
means that the Balance Sheet will go out of balance.  
For example, if the seller here had $400 in CSE , the B alance Sheet  would have gone out of 
balance immediately  because the Assets side would have decrease d by $1,000, but the L&E side 
would have decrease d by only $400.  
To fix that problem, you start by allocating value to the seller’s “identifiable intangible assets” 
such as patents, trademarks, intellectual property, and customer relationships. In this case, we 
allocated $200 to these items.  
If there’s still a gap remaining after that, you allocate the rest to Goodwill, which explains the 
$400 in Goodwill here.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
120 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
24. How do Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets change over time? 
Goodwill remains constant unless it is “impaired,” i.e., the acquirer decides that the acquired 
company is worth less than it initially expected and  writes down the Goodwill. That appears as 
an expense on the Income Statement and a non- cash adjustment on the Cash Flow Statement.  
Other Intangible Assets amortize over time (unless they are indefinite -lived), and that 
Amortization shows up on the Income Statement and as a non -cash adjustment on the Cash 
Flow Statement. The balance decreases until it has amortized completely.  
Neither Goodwill Impairment nor the Amortization of Intangibles is  deductible for Cash- Tax 
purposes, so the company’s Cash balance won’t increase; instead, the Deferred Tax Asset or 
Deferred Tax Liability will change.  
 
25. How do Operating Leases and Finance Leases (Capital Leases) appear on the financial 
statements? Explain the high -level treatment  as well as IFRS vs. U.S. GAAP differences.  
Assets and Liabilities associated with leases that last for more than 12 months now appear 
directly on companies’ Balance Sheet s. Operating Lease Assets are sometimes called “Right -of-
Use Assets,” and Operating Lease Liabilities initially match them on the other side.  
The rental expense for Finance Leases, which give companies an element of ownership or a 
“bargain purchase option” at the end, is split into Interest and Depreciation elements on the 
Income Statement.  
On the Cash Flow Statement, Depreciation is added back, and under Cash Flow from Financing, 
the company records a negative for the “Repayment of Lease Principal” (or similar name ).  
On the Balance Sheet, both the Lease Assets and Lease Liabilities decrease each year until the 
lease ends.  
Under IFRS, Operating Leases and Finance Leases are treated the same  way, so the Operating 
Lease Expense is also split into Interest and Depreciation elements, and the same BS and CFS 
line items change.  
For Operating Leases u nder U.S. GAAP, companies record a simple Lease or Rental Expense on 
the Income Statement, so there is no Depreciation/Interest split.  
However, the Lease Assets and Lease Liabilities on the Balance Sheet still decrease each year 
based on the “Depreciation” and “ Lease Principal Repayment” the company estimates . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
121 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
26. What’s the difference between Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities, and how 
are Net Operating Losses (NOLs) related to both of them? 
Both DTAs and DTLs relate to temporary differences between the book basis and the tax basis 
of assets and liabilities.  
Deferred Tax Assets represent potential future cash- tax savings for the company, while 
Deferred Tax Liabilities represent additional cash -tax payments in the future.  
DTLs often arise because of different Depreciation methods, such as when companies 
accelerate Depreciation for tax purposes, reducing their tax burden in the near term but 
increasing it in the future.  They may also be created in acquisitions . 
DTAs may arise when the company loses money  (i.e., negative Pre -Tax Income) in the current 
period and, therefore, accumulates a Net Operating Loss (NOL). They are also created when the 
company deducts an expense for Book -Tax purposes  but cannot deduct it at the same time for  
Cash -Tax purposes  (e.g., Stock -Based Compensation).  
NOLs are a component of the DTA; the NOL component of the DTA is approximately equal to 
the Tax Rate * NOL Balance.  
 
27. What are some items that are deductible for Book -Tax but not Cash -Tax purposes, and 
how do they affect the Deferred Tax line items?  
Examples include Stock -Based Compensation  (when initially granted), the Amortization of 
Intangibles, and various Write -Downs and Impairment s (for Goodwill, PP&E, etc.).  
These items reduce a company’s Book Taxes (the number that appears on the Income 
Statement), but they do not save the company anything in Cash Taxes . 
So, the Deferred Tax line item on the CFS will show a negative for these items, reducing the 
company’s cash flow, and the DTA will increase . 
These items become Cash -Tax Deductible only  when “Step 2” of the process happens – such as 
the company selling PP&E that has been written down, or the employees exercising their 
options and receiving their shares in the company.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
122 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
28. Suppose that you’re analyzing a company, and you want to project its financial 
statements. Before projecting anything, how would you *simplify* its statements first?  
On the Income Statement, you might split up Revenue and Expense differently or show 
Depreciation & Amortization as separate line items to make the projections easier.  
On the Balance Sheet, it’s best to aim for 5- 10 items, at most, on each side.  Combine “Short -
Term” and “Long -Term” versions of items, make a single Net DTA or Net DTL, and list just one 
line for Common Shareholders’ Equity. Combine all smaller/miscellaneous items.  
On the Cash Flow Statement, consolidate the smaller/miscellaneous items between Net Income 
and the Change in Working Capital. You don’t want ~15 line s there; aim for D&A, Deferred 
Taxes, and maybe 1 -2 others.  
In the CFI and CFF sections, combine smaller items related to purchasing and selling securities 
and paying fees on capital raised, and focus on the core items: CapEx, Equity and Debt 
Issuances, Stock Repurchases, Debt Repayments, and Dividends.  
Return to Top . 
 
Single -Step Changes on the Financial Statements  
These questions are straightforward if you’ve been using our 3 -statement “interview question” 
Excel model to try different scenarios.  
Remember the five main categories of changes:  
1. Changes to Cash Items on the Income Statement  – Straightforward since Net Income, 
Cash, and Common Shareholders’ Equity ( CSE) change.  
 
2. Changes to Operational Items on the Balance Sheet – These are trickier because 
different items change when an item decreases and when it increases, so you have to 
understand what the change means . 
 
3. Changes to Non -Cash Items on the Income Statement  – Net Income, Cash, and CSE 
change, but something on the Balance Sheet also changes.  There may also be a Book vs. 
Cash Tax effect, so the DTA or DTL may change as well.  
 
4. Changes to Leases on the Balance Sheet  – These require you to know the rules for lease 
accounting . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
123 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
5. Changes to Non -Operational Balance Sheet Items or Cash Flow Statement Items  – 
These are simple since there’s no immediate Income Statement impact; something on 
the CFS will change, Cash will change, and something on the Balance Sheet will change.  
We recommend going in this order when answering these questions:  
1. Explain how the Income Statement  changes, if at all.  
 
2. Explain how the Cash Flow Statement  changes, if at all.  
 
3. Explain how the Balance Sheet  changes and why it still balances, i.e. , why Assets still 
equal Liabilities + Equity.  
You can assume a 25% tax rate  to simplify the math, but make sure you state that when you 
explain your answer.  
 
1. Walk me through the financial statements when a company’s O perating Expenses increase 
by $100.  
• Income Statement:  Operating Expenses are up by $100, so Pre -Tax Income is down by 
$100, and Net Income is down by $ 75 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $ 75. There are no other changes, so C ash 
at the bottom is down by $ 75. 
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $ 75, so the Assets side is down by $ 75, and CSE on the 
L&E side is down by $ 75 due to the reduced Net Income, so both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Nothing ; it’s a simple cash expense.  
 
2. A company’s Depreciation increases by $ 20. What happens to  the financial statements?  
• Income Statement:  Pre-Tax Income falls by $ 20, and Net Income falls by $ 15, assuming 
a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $ 15, but you add back the $ 20 in 
Depreciation since it’s non -cash, so C ash at the bottom is up by $ 5. 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
124 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $ 5, but PP&E is down by $ 20 due to the Depreciation, so 
the Assets side is down by $ 15. The L&E side is also down by $ 15 because Net Income 
falls by $ 15, which reduce s CSE, so both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  This non -cash expense does not “cost” the company anything, but it reduces 
the company’s taxes . 
 
3. A company runs into financial distress and needs C ash immediately. It sells a factory that’s 
listed  at $100 on its Balance Sheet for $80. What happens to  the statements?  
• Income Statement:  You record a Loss of $20 on the Income Statement, which reduces 
Pre-Tax Income by $20 and Net Income by $1 5 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $1 5, but you add back the $20 Loss since 
it’s non -cash . You also show the full proceeds received, $80, in Cash Flow from 
Investing, so cash at the bottom is up by $ 85. 
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $8 5, and PP&E is down by $100, so the Assets side is down 
by $1 5. The L&E side is also down by $ 15 because CSE falls by $1 5 due to the Net 
Income decrease, so both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  The company gets the $80 in C ash proceeds, but it also gets $ 5 in tax savings 
from the Loss, so its C ash goes up by $8 5 rather than $80.  
 
4. A company decides to CHANGE a key employee’s compensation  by offering  the employee 
stock options instead of a cash salary. The employee’s cash salary was $100, but she will 
receive $120 in stock options now. How do the statements change?  
Operating Expenses go up by $20, but the company also records $120 in non -cash expenses 
that are not Cash- Tax Deductible:  
• Income Statement:  Operating Expenses increase by $20, so Pre -Tax Income falls by $20 , 
and Net Income falls by $1 5 at a 25 % tax rate.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
125 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $1 5, but you add back the $120 in SBC as 
a non-cash expense . However, this SBC is not truly Cash -Tax deductible, so there’s a 
Deferred Tax adjustment for ($30) , since ($120) * 25% = ($30) . The company did not 
reduce its Cash Taxes with this SBC. Cash at the bottom is up by $75.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $ 75, and the Net DTA is up by $30  because of the Deferred 
Tax adjustment, so the Assets side is up by $105. On the L&E side, CSE is down by $15 
because of the reduced Net Income, but it’s also up by $120 because of the SBC, so the 
L&E side is up by $105, and both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  The company increases its Cash balance by switching the employee to Stock -
Based Compensation, but it doesn’t realize any Cash- Tax savings from doing that – so, 
Cash is up by $75 rather than $120, $90, or some other, larger number.  
If you don’t feel comfortable with the tax part, you could skip the Deferred Tax adjustment and 
just say that Cash, rather than the Net DTA, increase s by $30 . 
 
5. Walk me through the financial statements when a customer orders a product for $100 but 
doesn’t pay for it in cash. Then, walk through the cash collection , combining it with the first 
step.  
The first step corresponds to Accounts Receivable increasing by $100, and the second step 
represents AR decreasing by $100.  Here’s what happens when it increases:  
• Income Statement:  Revenue increases by $100, so Pre -Tax Income is up by $100, and 
Net Income is up by $ 75 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is up by $ 75, but the increase in AR reduces cash flow 
by $100, so C ash at the bottom is down by $ 25. 
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $ 25, but AR is up by $100, so the Assets side is up by 
$75. On the L&E side, CSE  is up by $ 75 due to the increased Net Income, so both sides 
are up by $75 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  The company has to pay taxes on R evenue it hasn’t yet collected in cash, so its 
Cash balance falls  by $25.  
And when the AR is collected , combining it with the first step:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
126 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Income Statement:  The Net Income is still up by $75, and there are no other changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is still up by $75, but now the AR increase reverses, 
so the Change in AR is $0. Therefore, Cash at the bottom is up by $75.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is now up by $75, and AR goes back to its original level, so the 
Assets side is up by $75.  The L&E side is still up by $75 because of the CSE increase due 
to the increased Net Income in the first step, so both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  This is a simple cash collection of a $100 payment owed to the company.  Cash 
goes from being down by $25 in the first step to being up by $75 to reflect this.  
 
6. A company prepays $20 in utilities one month in advance. Walk me through what happens 
on the statements when the company prepays  the expense, and then what happens when 
the expense is recognized , combined with the first step.  
This scenario corresponds to Prepaid Expenses increasing and then decreasing. First, the 
increase:  
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  The $20 i ncrease in Prepaid Expense s reduces the company’s 
cash flow by $20, so C ash at the bottom is down by $20.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $20, but Prepaid Expenses is up by $20, so the Assets 
side doesn’t change. The L&E side also doesn’t change, so the Balance Sheet remains 
balanced.  
 
• Intuition:  This is a simple cash payment for expenses that have not yet been incurred . 
And then when Prepaid Expenses decrease , combining it with the first step:  
• Income Statement:  Operating Expenses increase by $20, so Pre -Tax Income falls by $20 , 
and Net Income falls by $1 5, assuming a 25 % tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $1 5, but the increase in Prepaid Expenses 
now reverses, and there are no other changes, so Cash at the bottom is down by $15.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
127 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $15, and Prepaid Expenses return to their original level, 
so the Assets side is down by $15. The L&E side is also down by $15 due to the reduced 
Net Income that flows into CSE, so both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Cash decreases by $15 because  this represents the payment and recognition 
of a simple $20 cash expense , which reduces taxes by $5.  
 
7. Walmart buys $ 400 in Inventory for products it will sell next month. Walk me through what 
happens on the statements when they first buy the Inventory, and then when they sell the 
products for $600, combining it with the first step.  
The first step is a simple Inventory purchase . In the second step, the company has to record 
COGS and the Revenue associated with the product sales.  Here’s the first step:  
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  The $4 00 Inventory increase reduces the company’s cash flow, so 
Cash at the bottom is down by $ 400. 
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $400, but Inventory is up by $ 400, so the Assets side 
doesn’t change. The L&E side also doesn’t change, so the Balance Sheet remains in 
balance.  
 
• Intuition:  This is a simple cash purchase for an expense that has not yet been incurred . 
And then here’s the second step, combining it with the changes in the first one:  
• Income Statement:  Revenue is up by $600, but COGS is up by $ 400, so Pre -Tax Income 
is up by $ 200, and Net Income is up by $ 150 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is up by $ 150, the Inventory increase now reverses 
because the Inventory has been sold, and there are no other changes, so Cash at the 
bottom is up by $ 150. 
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $ 150, and Inventory returns to its original level, so the 
Assets side is up by $ 150. The L&E side is also up by $ 150 because Net Income increases 
by $ 150 and flows into CSE, so both sides balance.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
128 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Intuition:  Cumulatively, this process  is a simple $200 increase in Pre -Tax Income, which 
boosts Net Income by $150 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
8. Amazon  decides to pay several key vendors $200 on credit  and says it will pay them in cash 
in one month. What happens on the financial statements when the expense is incurred, and 
then when it is paid in cash?  Combine the second step with the first one.  
This scenario corresponds to Accounts Payable or Accrued Expenses increasing by $200 and 
then decreasing by $200 when they’re finally paid out in cash.  
• Income Statement:  Operating Expenses increase by $200, so Pre -Tax Income is down by 
$200, and Net Income is down by $1 50, assuming a 25 % tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $1 50, but AP increasing by $200 results in 
higher cash flow since it means the expenses haven’t been paid in cash yet. So,  Cash at 
the bottom is up by $ 50. 
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $ 50, so the Assets side is up by $ 50. On the L&E side, AP is 
up by $200, but CSE  is down by $1 50 due to the reduced Net Income, so the L&E side is 
up by $ 50, and both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  This expense is “non -cash” at this point  because it reduces the company’s 
taxes but doesn’t cost anything in cash. Cash is up because of the reduced taxes.  
And then here’ s the second  step , combined with the first step:  
• Income Statement:  Net Income is still down by $150. No other changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is still down by $150, but now the AP increase 
reverses, so the Change in AP becomes $0. As a result, Cash at the bottom is down by 
$150.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $150, so the Assets side is down by $150. On the other 
side, AP returns to its original level, and CSE is down by $150 because of the reduced 
Net Income, so both sides are down by $150 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  From beginning to end, this is a simple $200 cash expense; Cash decreases by 
$150 rather than $200 due to the tax savings in the first step.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
129 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
9. Salesforce sells a customer a $100 per month subscription but makes the customer pay all 
in cash, upfront, for the entire year. What happens to the statements?  
This scenario corresponds to Deferred Revenue increasing because the company collects the 
Cash, but cannot yet recognize it as Revenue. The payment for the entire year is $1,200.  
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  DR increasing by $1,200 boost s the company’s cash flow, so C ash 
at the bottom is up by $1,200.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $1,200, so the Assets side is up by $1,200, and Deferred 
Revenue is up by $1,200, so the L&E side is up by $1,200, and both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  This is a simple $1,200 cash inflow , with no taxes, for services the company 
has not yet delivered.  
 
10. What happens after one month has passed , and the company has delivered one month of 
service for $100?  
Assume that there are $20 in Operating Expenses associated with the delivery of the service 
for this one month. Combine this step with the previous one.  
• Income Statement:  Revenue is up by $100, but Operating Expenses are up by $20, so 
Pre-Tax Income is up by $80, and Net Income is up by $60 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is up by $60, and part of the DR increase now 
reverses, so the increase in DR is now $1,100 rather than $1,200. Cash at the bottom is 
up by $1,160.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $1,160, so the Assets side is up by $1,160. On the L&E side, 
Deferred Revenue is now up by $1,100 instead of $1,200, and CSE is up by $60 due to 
the increased Net Income, so both sides are up by $1,160 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Cash is up by less than it was in the previous step because the company must 
pay expenses and taxes when part of th e cash inflow is now recognized as Revenue.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
130 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
11. A company issues $100 in common stock to new investors to fund its operations. How do 
the statements change?  
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  The $100 stock issuance is a cash inflow in Cash Flow from 
Financing, and there are no other changes, so C ash at the bottom goes up by $100.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $100, so the Assets side is up by $100, and Common 
Shareholders’ Equity on the other side goes up by $100, so the L&E side is up by $100 , 
and both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  This is a simple cash inflow that doesn’t impact the company’s taxes at all.  
 
12. This same company now realizes that it has too much C ash, so it wants to issue Dividends 
or repurchase common shares. How do they impact the three  statements differently? 
Compare $100 in D ividends with a $100 Stock Repurchase . 
These changes both make a similar impact; the main difference is that Dividends do not reduce 
the common shares  outstanding , but a Stock Repurchase does.  
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Both of these show up as negative $100 entries in Cash Flow from 
Financing, reducing the C ash at the bottom of the CFS by $100.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $100, so the Assets side is down by $100; on the L&E 
side, Dividends reduce Retained Earnings within CSE by $100, while a Stock Repurchase 
reduce s Treasury Stock within CSE by $100. But in either case, CSE is down by $100, so 
the L&E side is down by $100, and both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  These are simple cash outflows that don’t affect the company’s taxes at all.  
We can’t determine how the common share s outstanding change  without information on the 
share price at which the Stock Repurchase take s place.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
131 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
13. A company that follows U.S. GAAP signs a 10-year , $1,000 Operating Lease on January 1 
and pays a total of $100 in Rent throughout the year. 
Assume a 6% Discount Rate, and walk me through the financial statements over this entire 
year in a single step.  
Initially, the company records the Operating Lease Assets and Liabilities on its Balance Sheet 
($1,000 on both sides),  and then it records the Rental Expense on the Income Statement. 
The 6% Discount Rate means that the initial “Interest Expense” is 6% * $1,000 = $60, so the 
“Depreciation” equals $100 – $60 = $40. Since the lease payments are constant, the “Lease 
Principal Repayment” equals the “Depreciation” here:  
• Income Statement:  Operating Expenses are up by $100 due to the Rent, so Pre -Tax 
Income falls by $100, and Net Income falls by $75 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $75, but Operating Lease Assets and 
Liabilities increase by $1,000, which offset each other.  But then they both decrease by 
$40, which is also an offset. So, C ash is down by $75 at the bottom.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  On the Assets side, Cash is down  by $75, and Operating Lease Assets are 
up by $960, so Total Assets are up by $885. On the L&E side, the Operating Lease 
Liabilities are up by $960, and CSE is down by $75, so this side is up by $885, and both 
sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Cash is down by $75 because this is a simple $100 cash expense with $25 in 
tax savings, and the Lease Asset and Lease Liability change by the same amounts.  
 
14. A company that follows IFRS now signs a 10 -year , $1,000 Operating Lease  with a cash 
Rental Expense of $100 per year. Assume a 6% Discount Rate and walk me through the statements  over the entire year.  
Under IFRS, the company records Depreciation of $1,000 / 10 = $100 per year and an initial 
Interest Expense of $1,000 * 6% = $60.  
The Lease Principal Repayment = Cash Rental Expense – Interest Expense = $100 – $60 = $40.  
• Income Statement:  Depreciation is up by $100, and the Interest Expense is up by $60, 
so Pre -Tax Income is down by $160, and Net Income falls by $120 at a 25% tax rate.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
132 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $120, but you add back the $100 of 
Depreciation and record the $1,000 additions to the Finance Lease Assets and Liabilities  
(which offset each other). Also, you record a negative $40 for the Lease Principal 
Repayment. Cash is down by $60 at the bottom.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $ 60, and the Finance Lease Assets are up by $900 due 
to the initial $1,000 increase and the $100 of Depreciation, so Total Assets are up by 
$840. On the other side, the Finance Lease Liabilities are up by $960, and Common 
Shareholders’ Equity is down by $120, so both sides are up by $840 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Cash is down by $ 60 because there’s a total of $200 in new Lease Expenses , 
but $100 of them are non-cash, and $160 of them reduce the company’s taxes. So, 
($200) + $100 + $160 * 25% = ($60).  
 
15. For Book purposes, a company records $20 in Depreciation. For Tax purposes, it records 
$40 in Depreciation. Walk me through the financial statements.  
You don’t need to walk through the Tax Schedule for this type of change because the numbers 
are simple:  
• Income Statement:  The $20 in increased Depreciation reduces Pre -Tax Income by $20 
and Net Income by $15 at a 25% tax rate, so the company saves $5 in taxes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $15, and you add back the $20 in 
Depreciation as a non -cash expense. However, the company recorded $40  of 
Depreciation  for Cash -Tax purposes, so it actually  reduced its Cash Taxes by $10, not $ 5. 
You record this additional $5 as a positive in the Deferred Income Taxes  line on the CFS. 
Cash at the bottom is up by $10.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $10 on the Assets side, and Net PP&E is down by $20, so 
the Assets side is down by $10. On the L&E side, the Deferred Tax Liability is up by $5, 
and CSE is down by $15 due to the reduced Net Income, so the L&E side is also down by 
$10, and both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Cash is up by $10 rather than $5 or $0 because the company’s actual Cash- Tax 
savings equals $40 * 25% = $10.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
133 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
16. A company has a factory shown at $200 on its Balance Sheet, but a hurricane hits the 
factory and destroys part of it, so the company records a $100 PP&E Write -Down. Walk me 
through the statements.  
Normally, PP&E Write -Downs are not Cash- Tax deductible, so the “correct” treatment is:  
• Income Statement:  The $100 PP&E Write -Down reduces Pre -Tax Income by $100, and 
Net Income falls by $75 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $75, but you add back the $100 Write -
Down as a non- cash expense. In reality, however, the company saved nothing in Cash 
Taxes, so you  also record a negative $25 in Deferred Income Taxes, and Cash at the 
bottom is unchanged.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash does not change, but the Deferred Tax Asset increases by $25, and 
Net PP&E decreases by $100, so the Assets side is down by $75. The L&E side is also 
down by $75 because CSE falls due to the reduced Net Income, so both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Cash does not change because Write -Downs are typically not Cash -Tax 
deductible, so the DTA, rather than Cash, increases.  
Return to Top . 
 
Multi -Step Changes on the Financial Statements  
These questions get tricky  because you have to keep track of more numbers . 
If you don’t feel comfortable doing that, you can ask the interviewer if it’s OK to write down a 
few f igures as you’re moving along. I t’s better to do that than to make a mistake.  
You should also ask whether you need to give  the CUMULATIVE change  – i.e., what happens 
after all events have passed, from beginning to end – or just the change after a single event . 
We tend to use the cumulative change for simpler scenarios, but we switch to single -step 
changes for more complex ones.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
134 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
1. A company buys a factory for $ 200 using $ 200 of Debt. What happens INITIALLY on the 
statements?  
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  There’s no net change in cash because the $ 200 factory purchase 
counts as CapEx, which reduces cash flow, and the $ 200 Debt issuance is a cash inflow.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  PP&E is up by $2 00, so the Assets side is up by $ 200, and Debt is up by 
$200, so the L&E side is up by $2 00, and the Balance Sheet stays balanced.  
 
• Intuition:  An Asset increases and a Liability increases to balance it, and there are no tax 
effects.  
 
2. One year passes. The company pays 10% interest on its Debt, and it depreciates 10% of the 
factory. It also repays 5% of the Debt principal . What happens on the statements  in this first 
year ? 
A 10% interest rate means $2 0 in Interest Expense, the 10% depreciation means $200 * 10% = 
$20 of Depreciation, and 5% * $200 = $10 of the Debt principal is repaid.  So: 
• Income Statement:  You record $ 20 in I nterest and $ 20 in Depreciation, so Pre -Tax 
Income falls by $ 40, and Net Income falls by $ 30 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $30, but you add back the $20 of 
Depreciation and record $10 in Debt Principal Repayments, so Cash at the bottom is 
down by $20.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $20, and Net PP&E is down by $20, so the Assets side is 
down by $40. On the L&E side, Debt is down by $10 due to the principal repayment, and 
CSE is down by $30 due to the reduced Net Income, so both sides are down by $40 and 
balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Cash declines because of the Interest Expense and Debt Principal Repayment, 
offset by the tax savings from the Interest and Depreciation.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
135 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
3. At the end of this first year, the company sell s its factories for $220 and use s the proceeds 
to repay its remaining Debt principal, after realizing there is little demand for its products.  
Walk through this step SEPARATELY from the previous two . 
Assume that the Net PP&E balance is $180, and the Debt is $190 because of changes in the 
previous step.  
The Net PP&E  selling price is $220, and its Book Value is $180, so we record a Gain of $40 : 
• Income Statement:  The Realized Gain of $40 increases Pre -Tax Income by $40 and Net 
Income by $30 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is up by $30, but the $40 Gain is non- cash, so it’s 
reversed in the CFO section. Then, in Cash Flow from Investing, the full sale proceeds of 
$220 are recorded as a cash inflow. In Cash Flow from Financing, the $190 Debt 
repayment is shown as a negative.  So, Cash at the bottom is up by $20.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $20, and Net PP&E is down by $180, so Total Assets are 
down by $160. On the L&E side, Debt is down by $190, and CSE is up by $30 because of 
the increased Net Income, so both sides are down by $160 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Cash is up because of the Gain, which boosts Cash by $30 after taxes . 
However, the full $30 does not flow into Cash because the Debt Repayment exceeds the 
reduction in Net PP&E by $10. As a result, Cash is up by $20 instead of $30.  
 
4. Walmart orders $ 200 of Inventory  and pays for it using Debt. What happens on the 
statements  immediately after this initial transaction ? 
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Inventory is up by $200, which reduces cash flow by $200, but 
the Debt issuance boosts cash flow by $200, so Cash at the bottom stays the same.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  The Assets side is up by $200 because Inventory is up by $200. The L&E 
side is also up by $200 because Debt is up by $200, so both sides balance.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
136 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Intuition:  This is a simple cash payment for an expense not yet incurred, combined with 
a Debt issuance that offsets the cash outflow.  
 
5. A year passes, and Wal mart sells the $200 of Inventory for $400. However, it also has to 
hire additional employees for $100 to process and deliver the orders  (counted as OpEx).  
The company also pays 4% interest on its Debt and repays 10% of the principal. What 
happens on the statements over this year? Combine this step with the previous one and 
explain the changes from beginning to end.  
This question is the standard “ Sell I nventory for a certain amount of R evenue” one, but there 
are a few twists. For one, there’s also $100 in additional Operating Expenses.  
Also, you need to factor in the $8 Interest Expense on the Debt ($200 * 4%) and the $20 Debt 
Principal Repayment ($200 * 10%).  
• Income Statement:  Revenue is up by $400, but COGS is up by $200, and OpEx is up by 
$100, so Operating Income is only up by $100. There’s $8 in Interest Expense as well, so 
Pre-Tax Income is up by $92.  At a 25% tax rate, Net Income is up by $69 (mental math: 
$100 * 75% = $75, and $8 * 75% = $6, so take $75 and subtract $6).  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is up by $69. But now we reverse the previous 
increase in Inventory, so the Change in Inventory is $0 once again. The $200 cash inflow 
for Debt still exists, but now there’s also a $20 Debt Principal Repayment so Cash at the 
bottom is up by $2 49. 
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $2 49, and Inventory returns to its original level, so the 
Assets side is up by $2 49. On the L&E side, Debt is up by $ 180, and CSE is up by $69 due 
to the increased Net Income, so both sides are up by $2 49 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  The company has bought goods, turned them into finished products, and 
recorded $75 in after -tax profits from the sale. However, its Cash balance increases by 
only $ 49 due to the Interest Expense on the Debt it used to purchase this Inventory  as 
well as the Debt Principal Repayment.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
137 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
6. Walk through the same scenario, but assume that Walmart purchase s the $200 of 
Inventory on credit (i.e., Accounts Payable), sells  it for $400, and still records $100 in 
additional OpEx. Assume that it pays the suppliers in the second step of this process.  
Remember that Accounts Payable is not necessarily  linked to a specific Income Statement line 
item in a case like this! It could just correspond to the company paying for Inventory on credit. 
In the first step:  
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Accounts Payable increases, increasing cash flow by $200, and 
Inventory also increases, reducing cash flow by $200; the changes offset each other, and 
Cash at the bottom stays the same.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Inventory on the Assets side is up by $200, and Accounts Payable on the 
L&E side is up by $200, so both sides are up by $200 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  The company receives the parts and materials, but has not paid for them in 
cash yet, so the Balance Sheet changes but Cash stays the same.  
And then in the second step:  
• Income Statement:  Revenue is up by $400, COGS is up by $200, and OpEx is up by $100, 
so Pre -Tax Income is up by $100. Net Income is up by $75 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is up by $75, and the Change in Inventory and 
Change in Accounts Payable both reverse now, so Cash at the bottom is up by $75.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $75 on the Assets side, and Inventory returns to its original 
level, so Total Assets are up by $75. On the L&E side, AP returns to its original level, and 
CSE is up by $75 due to the increased Net Income, so both sides are up by $75 and 
balance.  
 
• Intuition:  From beginning to end, this is a simple increase of $100 in Pre -Tax Income, so 
the company’s Cash balance goes up by $75 due to taxes.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
138 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
7. A company issues $ 200 in Preferred Stock to buy $2 00 in F inancial Investments . The 
Preferred Stock has a coupon rate of 8%, and the F inancial Investments yield 10%. What 
happens on the statements IMMEDIATELY after the initial purchase?  
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  The purchase of the Financial Investments counts as an Investing 
Activity and reduces cash flow by $ 200, but the Preferred Stock issuance boosts cash 
flow by $ 200 within CFF, so there’s no net change in cash.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Financial Investments is up by $ 200, so the Assets side is up by $ 200, and 
Preferred Stock on the other side is up by $ 200, so the L&E side is up by $ 200, and both 
sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  This is a simple cash purchase of investments funded by a Preferred Stock 
issuance, and neither event affects the company’s taxes.  
 
8. What happens on the statements after a year?  Combine this step with the previous one, so 
that you factor in the increases in Financial Investments and Preferred Stock.  
Although you subtract Preferred Dividends from Net Income to calculate Net Income to 
Common, the Preferred Dividends are NOT tax -deductible : 
• Income Statement:  The company records 10% * $200 = $20 in Interest Income from the 
Financial Investments, so Pre -Tax Income is up by $20, and Net Income is up by $15 at a 
25% tax rate. The Preferred Dividends equal 8% * $200 = $16, so Net Income to 
Common is down by $1 after subtracting these.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income to Common is down by $1, and the Financial 
Investment and Preferred Stock increases still appear on the CFS and offset each other, 
so Cash at the bottom is down by $1.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $1, and Financial Investments are up by $200, so the 
Assets side is up by $199. On the L&E side, Preferred Stock is still up by $200, and CSE is 
down by $1 because of the reduced Net Income to Common, so both sides are up by 
$199 and balance.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
139 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Intuition:  The point of this question is that the tax treatment of funding sources can 
make a significant impact on the statements . Since the Preferred Dividends are not  tax-
deductible, the company’s Cash balance falls; if they had been tax -deductible, its Cash 
balance would have risen. Also, note that Preferred Dividends d o not reduce Preferred 
Stock  – they reduce Common Shareholders’ Equity!  
 
9. A company wants to boost its EPS  artificially , so it decides to issue Debt and use the 
proceeds to repurchase common shares.  
Initially, the company has 1, 000 share s outstanding at $1. 00 per share and a Net Income of 
$300. 
What happens IMMEDIATELY after the company raises $ 200 in Debt and uses it to repurchase 
$200 in common stock?  
Repurchasing $ 200 in stock at a share price of $ 1.00 per share means that the company 
repurchase s 200 shares , so its share count drops from 1,000 to 800 . 
Its EPS before  this move was $ 300 / 1 ,000, or $0.30. For the first step : 
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  The $2 00 Debt issuance boosts cash flow by $ 200, but the $ 200 
stock repurchase reduces it by $ 200, so there’s no net change in cash.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  There are no changes on the Asset side. On the L&E side, Debt is up by 
$200, but Treasury Stock within CSE is down by $ 200, so there’s no net change , and the 
BS remains in balance.  
 
• Intuition:  These are simple cash inflows and outflows that cancel each other out and 
make no impact on the company’s taxes.  
 
10. What happens after a year passes if the company pays 4 % interest on the Debt?  Combine 
this with the first step and explain the EPS impact.  
This question is a twist on the standard 3 -statement accounting questions because you also 
have to calculate the change in EPS : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
140 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Income Statement:  The company records 4% * $200 = $8 in Interest Expense, so Pre -Tax 
Income is down by $8, and Net Income is down by $6 at a 25% tax rate. Net Income is 
now $294 rather than $300, and the Share Count decreased from 1,000 to 800 in Step 1 . 
Therefore, EPS increase s because the EPS numerator falls  by 2%, but the denominator 
falls by 20% (it’s a $0.07 increase, but you can just say, “ EPS increase s”). 
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $6, and the Debt Issuance and Stock 
Repurchase still offset each other, so Cash at the bottom is down by $6.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is down by $6, so the Assets side is down by $6. On the L&E side, 
Debt is still up by $200, CSE is down by $200 due to the Stock Repurchase, and then it 
drops by another $6 due to the reduced Net Income, so the L&E side is also down by $6, 
and both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Companies can artificially inflate their EPS with these tactics , so they may 
“look better” even if their cash flow and Cash balances both decrease . Don’t trust EPS!  
 
11. Your company decides to acquire another company for $500, using 50% Debt and 50% 
Common Stock.  
The other company has  $300 in Assets, no Liabilities, and $300 in Common Shareholders’ 
Equity. Assume that the purchase premium is distributed 50/50 between Goodwill and Other 
Intangible Assets.  
What happens to your company’s financial statements immediately after this acquisition 
takes place?  
You combine the other company’s Assets and Liabilities with your company’s, and you write 
down the seller’s Common Shareholders’ Equity : 
• Income Statement:  No changes.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  You record a negative $500 for “Acquisitions” in Cash Flow from 
Investing  and a positive $250 for Debt Issuances and positive $250 for Common Stock 
Issuances under Cash Flow from Financing . Cash at the bottom is unchanged.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash stays the same, but you add the $300 in Acquired Assets, as well as 
the $100 in Goodwill and $100 in Other Intangible Assets , so the Assets side is up by 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
141 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
$500. On the other side, Debt is up by $250 , and CSE is up by $250, so the L&E side is 
also up by $500, and both sides balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Immediately after the deal closes, the main changes take place on the Balance 
Sheet ; Cash does not change because the acquisition was funded completely with Debt 
and a Stock Issuance.  
 
12. Now, walk through what happens on the statements in the one year following this 
acquisition. The acquired company contributes $200 in Revenue and $100 in OpEx, and the 
Interest Rate on Debt is 8%. Assume that the Other Intangible Assets have a useful life of 5 
years.  
Walk through ONLY THIS STEP , and do not worry about tracking the cumulative changes with 
the previous one.  
• Income Statement:  Revenue is up by $200, but OpEx is up by $100, and there’s now 
$100 / 5 = $20 of Amortization of Intangibles and $250 * 8% = $20 of Interest Expense. 
So, Pre -Tax Income is up by $100 – $20 – $20 = $60. At a 25% tax rate, Net Income is up 
by $45.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is up by $45, and we add back the $20 of 
Amortization of Intangibles since it was non -cash. However, we also make an 
adjustment of ($5) in Deferred Income Taxes because this Amortization is not Cash -Tax 
Deductible. So, Cash at the bottom is up by $45 + $20 – $5 = $60.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is up by $60, Other Intangibles are down by $20 due to the 
Amortization, and the Net DTA is up by $5 due to the Deferred Income Tax adjustment, 
so the Assets side is up by $45. On the L&E side, CSE is up by $45 due to the increased 
Net Income, so both sides are up by $45 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  The acquired company contributes $100 in Operating Income, but it’s not a 
straight $75 increase to Cash because of the new Amortization and Interest Expense, 
which make it to a $45 increase instead.  
 
13. On December 31 of Year 1, this same company now decides that this acquired company is 
worth far less than expected, so it writes down the entire $100 balance of Goodwill.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
142 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Walk through JUST THIS STEP BY ITSELF, ignoring the cumulative changes in the previous two 
steps.  
This one is a simple non -cash expense that is also not Cash- Tax Deductible:  
• Income Statement:  Record a $100 Goodwill Impairment, which reduces Pre -Tax Income 
by $100 and Net Income by $75 at a 25% tax rate.  
 
• Cash Flow Statement:  Net Income is down by $75, and you add back the $100 Goodwill 
Impairment. Also, since it was not Cash -Tax Deductible, record a ($25) adjustment in 
Deferred Income Taxes. Cash at the bottom is unchanged.  
 
• Balance Sheet:  Cash is unchanged, Goodwill is down by $100, and the Net DTA is up by 
$25, so Total Assets are down by $75. On the L&E side, CSE is down by $75 due to the 
reduced Net Income, so both sides are down by $75 and balance.  
 
• Intuition:  Impairments and write -downs are rarely, if ever, Cash -Tax deductible . So, 
when they occur, they increase the company’s DTA or Net DTA  rather than increasing its 
Cash balance.  
Return to Top . 
 
Working Capital, Free Cash Flow, and Other Metrics and Ratios  
Questions on these topics are not  common in investment banking interviews; key metrics and 
ratios are more important in public -markets  roles such as equity research.  
Still, questions on Working Capital, Free Cash Flow, and financial ratios could  come up, so we 
present a few examples here.  
 
1. What is Free Cash Flow  (FCF) , and what does it mean if it's positive and increasing?  
There are different types of Free Cash Flow, but one simple definition is Cash Flow from 
Operations  (CFO)  minus CapEx. 
FCF represents a company’s “discretionary cash flow” – how much cash flow it generates from 
its core business after  also paying for the cost of its funding sources, such as interest on Debt.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
143 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It’s defined this way because most items in CFO are required to run the business, while most of 
the CFI and CFF sections are optional or non -recurring (except for CapEx).  
It’s generally a good sign if FCF is positive and increasing, as long as it’s driven by the company’s 
sales, market share, and margins growing  (rather than creative cost -cutting or reduced re-
investment into the business).  
Positive and growing FCF means the company doesn’t need outside funding sources to stay 
afloat, and it could spend its cash flow in different ways: hiring more employees, re -investing in 
the business, acquiring other companies, or returning money to the shareholders with 
Dividends or Stock Repurchases.  
 
2. What does FCF mean if it's negative or decreasing? 
You have to find out why  FCF is negative or decreasing first. For example, if FCF is negative 
because CapEx in one year was unusually high, but it’s expected to return to normal levels in 
the future, negative FCF in one year doesn’t mean much.  
On the other hand, if FCF is negative because the company’s sales and operating income have 
been declining each year, then the business is in trouble.  
If FCF decreases to the point where the company runs low on C ash, it will have to raise Equity 
or Debt funding ASAP and restructure to continue operating.  
Short periods of negative FCF, such as for early -stage startups, are acceptable, but if a company 
continues to generate negative cash flow for years or decades, stay away!  
 
3. Why might you have to adjust the calculation for FCF if you’re analyzing a company that 
follows IFRS rather than U.S. GAAP?  
The simple definition ( Cash Flow from Operations minus CapEx ) assumes that Cash Flow from 
Operations has deductions for the Net Interest Expense, Preferred Dividends (if applicable), 
Taxes, and all Lease Expenses.  
That is almost always the case under U.S. GAAP because CFO usually starts with Net Income (to 
Common), but under IFRS, the presentation of the Cash Flow Statement varies widely.  
So, if a company starts CFO with Operating Income or Pre -Tax Income instead, you’ll have to 
make adjustments to ensure that the proper items have been deducted.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
144 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Also, you should not  add back the Depreciation element of the Lease Expense in the non- cash 
adjustments section  of CFO.  
 
4. What is Working Capital?  
The official definition of Working Capital  is “Current As sets minus Current Liabilities,” but the 
more useful  definition is:  
Working Capital  = Current Operational Assets  – Current Operational Liabilities  
“Operational” means that you exclude items such as Cash, Investments, and Debt that are 
related to the company’s capital structure, not its core business.  
This version  is sometimes called Operating Working Capital  instead.  
You may also include Long -Term Assets and Liabilities that are related to the company’s 
business operations (Long -Term Deferred Revenue is a good example).  
Working Capital tells you whether a company needs more in O perational Assets or Operational 
Liabilities to run its business, and how big the difference is. But the Change in Working Capital  
(see below) matters far more for valuation purposes.  
 
5. A co mpany has negative Working Capital. Is that “good” or “bad”?  
It depends on why  the Working Capital is negative because different components mean 
different things.  
For example, if the company has $100 in Accounts Receivable, $100 in Inventory, and $500 in 
Deferred Revenue, for ($300) in Working Capital, that’s considered positive because the high 
Deferred Revenue balance means it has collected  significant cash before product/service 
delivery.  
But if that company has $100 in AR, $100 in Inventory, and $500 in Accounts Payable, that’s 
considered negative because it means the company owes  a lot of cash to its suppliers and other 
vendors and collects no cash from customers in advance of deliveries.  
 
6. Should Changes in Operating Lease Assets and Liabilities be included in the Change in 
Working Capital? What difference does it make if they are included or not included?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
145 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Different companies set up their statements differently, so some companies list these items 
within the Change in WC, others list them outside of the Change in WC but within Cash Flow 
from Operations, and others do not list them on the CFS at all.  
Under U.S. GAAP, the exact treatment makes almost no difference because the Change in 
Operating Lease Assets tends to be very close to  the Change in Operating Lease Liabilities , so 
changes to these items usually offset each other.  
Under IFRS, only increases  in Operating Lease Assets and Liabilities could potentially appear 
within the Change in Working Capital because the Depreciation and Lease Principal Repayment 
parts are shown separately . 
Even though the Lease Assets and Liabilities decrease  by different amounts each year under 
IFRS, they should increase  by about the same amount. Therefore, the cash flows usually offset 
each other, and the se items’ exact positions do not matter.  
 
7. A company's Working Capital has increased from $50 to $200.  
You calculate the Change in Working Capital by taking the new number  and subtracting the 
old number, so $200 – $50 = positive $150.  
But on its Cash Flow Statement, the company records the Change in Working Capital  as 
negative $150. Is the company wrong?  
No, t he company is correct. On  the Cash Flow Statement, the Change in Working Capital 
equals Old Working Capital – New Working Capital . 
Pretend  that Working Capital consists of ONLY Inventory. If Inventory increases from $50 to 
$200, that will reduce the company’s cash flow because it means the company has spent Cash 
to purchase Inventory.  
Therefore, the Change in Inventory should be ($150) on the CFS, and if that’s the only 
component of Working Capital, the Change in WC should also be ($150).  
When a company’s Working Capital INCREASES, the company USES cash to do that; when 
Working Capital DECREASES, it FREES UP  cash.  
 
8. What does the Change in Working Capital mean?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
146 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Change in Working Capital tells you if the company needs to spend in ADVANCE  of its 
growth, or if it generates more cash flow as a RESULT  of its growth.  
It’s also a component of Free Cash Flow and gives you an indication of how much “Cash Flow” 
will differ from Net Income, and in which direction.  
For example, the Change in Working Capital is often negative for retailers because they must 
spend money on Inventory before being able to sell products.  
But the Change in Working Capital is often positive for subscription companies that collect cash 
from customers far in advance because Deferred Revenue increases when they do that, and 
increases in Deferred Revenue boost cash flow.  
The Change in Working Capital increases or decreases Free Cash Flow, which  directly affects the 
company’s valuation.  
 
9. What does it mean if a company's FCF is growing, but its Change in Working Capital is more 
and more negative  each year ? 
It means that the company’s Net Income or non- cash charges are growing by more than its 
Change in WC is declining, or that its CapEx is becoming less negative  by more than the Change 
in WC is declining.  
If a company’s Net Income is growing for legitimate reasons, this is a positive sign. But if higher 
non-cash charges or artificially reduced CapEx are boosting FCF, both are negative . 
 
10. In its filings, a company states that EBITDA is a “proxy” for its Cash Flow from Operations. 
The company’s EBITDA has been positive and growing at 20% for the past three years. 
However, the company recently ran low on Cash and filed for bankruptcy. How could this 
have happened ? 
Although EBITDA can be  a “proxy” for CFO, it is not  a perfect representation of a company’s 
cash flow. Think about all the items that EBITDA excludes , but which affect the company’s Cash 
balance:  
• CapEx  – Unnecessarily high CapEx spending might have pushed the company to 
bankruptcy.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
147 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Acquisitions  – Or, maybe the company spent a fortune on companies that turned out to 
be worthless.  
 
• Interest Expense and Debt Repayment Obligations  – A “positive and growing EBITDA” 
could have hidden a “massively growing Interest Expense.”  
 
• Change in Working Capital  – Maybe the company became less efficient in collect ing 
cash from customers, or it had to start paying its suppliers more quickly.  
 
• One -Time Charges  – If EBITDA excludes large “one -time” expenses such as legal and 
restructuring charges, it might paint a far rosier picture than reality.  
 
11. How do you calculate Return on Invested Capital  (ROIC) , and what does it tell you?  
ROIC is defined as NOPAT / Average Invested Capital, where NOPAT (Net Operating Profit After 
Taxes) = EBIT * (1 – Tax Rate), and Invested Capital = Equity + Debt + Preferred Stock + Other 
Long- Term Funding Sources.  
It tells you how efficiently a company is using its capital from all sources (both external and 
internal) to generate operating profits.  
Among similar companies, ones with higher ROIC figures should, in theory, be valued more 
highly because all the investor groups earn more for each $1.00 invested into the company.  
 
12. What are the advantages and disadvantages of ROE, ROA, and ROIC for measuring 
company performance? 
These metrics all measure how efficiently a company is using its Equity, Assets, or Invested 
Capital to generate profits, but the nuances are slightly different.  
ROE and ROA are both affected by capital structure (the company’s Cash and Debt and Net 
Interest Expense) because they use Net Income (to Common) in the numerator.  
However, they’re also “closer to reality” because Net Income (to Common) is an actual metric 
that appears on companies’ financial statements and affects the Cash balance.  
By contrast, since NOPAT is a hypothetical metric that doesn’t appear on the statements, ROIC 
is further removed from the company’s Cash position, even though it has the advantage of 
being capital structure -neutral.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
148 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In terms of ROE vs. ROA, ROA tends to be more useful for companies that depend heavily on 
their Assets to generate Net Income (e.g., banks and insurance firms), while ROE is more of a 
general -purpose metric that applies to many industries.  
 
13. A company seems to be boosting its ROE artificially by using leverage to fuel its growth. 
Which metrics or ratios could you look at to see if this is true ? 
Companies can artificially boost their ROE by continually issuing Debt rather than Equity 
because Debt doesn’t affect the denominator, and the Interest Expense from Debt only makes 
a small impact on the numerator (Net Income).  
And this small impact is usually outweighed by the additional Operating Income the company 
generates from the assets it buys with the proceeds from the Debt issuances.  
To see if this is happening, you could check the company’s Debt / EBITDA and EBITDA  / Interest 
ratios and see how they’ve been trending. If Debt / EBITDA keeps increasing  while EBITDA / 
Interest keeps decreasing, the company may be relying on leverage to boost its ROE.  
 
14. What does it say about a company if its Days Receivables Outstanding is ~5, but its Days 
Payable Outstanding is ~60?  
It tells you that the company has quite a lot of market power  to collect cash from customers 
quickly  and to delay supplier payments for a long time. Examples might be companies like 
Amazon and Walm art that dominate their respective markets  and that often make suppliers 
“offers they can’t refuse.” 
 
15. What is the Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC), and what does it mean if, among a group of 
similar companies, one company’s CCC is 5, and another’s is 30?  
The Cash Conversion Cycle is defined as Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) + Days Inventory 
Outstanding (DIO) – Days Payable Outstanding (DPO), and it tells you how much time it takes a 
company to convert its Inventory and other short -term Assets, such as Accounts Receivable, 
into Cash.  
Lower is better  for this metric because it means the company “converts” these items into cash 
flow more quickly, so a CCC is 5 is better than a CCC of 30.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
149 of 149 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This one also depends heavily on the industry: the CCC is often low (under 10) for large 
retailers, but it may be over 100 (or more!) in an industry like spirits , where Inventory may sit 
on the Balance Sheet for months, years , or decades.  
Return to Top . 