 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Core Financial Modeling , Modules 7 – 8: Valuation and DCF Analysis  
Table of Contents:  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  ................................ ................................ ........................  2 
Key Rule #1: The Big Idea Behind DCF Analysis and Valuation  ................................ .......  2 
Key Rule #2: Components of Unlevered Free Cash Flow ................................ ................  4 
Key Rule #3: Figure Out the Company’s Business and Your Financial Model  ................  9 
Key Rule #4: DCF – How to Project Unlevered Free Cash Flow  ................................ .... 13 
Key Rule #5: DCF – The Discount Rate and WACC  ................................ ........................  20 
Key Rule #6: DCF – Terminal Value  ................................ ................................ ...............  33 
Key Rule #7: How to Sensitize a DCF and Reach Conclusions  ................................ ...... 40 
Key Rule #8: Comparable Public Companies (Public Comps)  ................................ .......  43 
Key Rule  #9: Precedent Transactions (M&A Comps)  ................................ ....................  52 
Key Rule #10: The “Football Field”: How to Put Together a Full Valuation  ..................  58 
Key Rule #11: DCF – More Advanced Features [OPTIONAL]  ................................ ........  61 
Key Rule #12: Supplemental Valuation Methodologies [OPTIONAL]  ...........................  73 
Key Rule #13: Leases in Valuation and DCF Analysis [OPTIONAL]  ................................  86 
Key Rule #14: Differences for IFRS -Based Companies [OPTIONAL] ..............................  93 
Key Rule #15: Summary and Trade -Offs of Different Methodologies [OPTIONAL] ...... 98 
Interview Questions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  107 
The Purpose of Valuation  ................................ ................................ ...........................  107 
DCF Analysis – Walking Through and Explaining It  ................................ .....................  110 
DCF Analysis – Calculating Free Cash Flow  ................................ ................................ . 115 
DCF Analysis – Discount Rates and WACC  ................................ ................................ .. 121 
DCF Analysis – Calculating the Terminal Value  ................................ ...........................  133 
DCF Analysis – More Advanced Features  ................................ ................................ ... 138 
Factors That Affect a DCF Analysis  ................................ ................................ ..............  141 
Public Comps and Precedent Transactions  ................................ ................................ . 143 
Other Valuation Methodologies  ................................ ................................ .................  151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  
If you’ve already read and understood the guides and lessons on Present Value and IRR, 
Accounting, and Equity Value and Enterprise Value, this guide will be straightforward.  
The main difference is that this guide is about the real-life applications  of those topics, not the 
theory behind them.  
The goal is to tie together these concepts  to create something useful in real life: an integrated 
valuation model of a company.  
It goes back to Implied vs. Current Value:  is a company undervalued, overvalued, or valued 
appropriately?  
With an Excel -based valuation, you can answer that question and use the results to advise a 
client or make an investment decision.  
 
Key Rule #1: The Big Idea Behind DCF Analysis and Valuation  
We’ve continually referenced this formula : 
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate) , where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate.  
If a company’s Discount Rate and Cash Flow Growth Rate stay the same  forever , then it should 
be worth the amount predicted by this formula.  
But that is never true in real life . 
A company may grow quickly in its early days, but its growth rate will fall as it matures and  finds 
its market increasingly saturated.  
And a company’s Discount Rate might be high early on  but may drop to a lower level as its risk 
and potential returns both decline.  
Since the Discount Rate and Cash Flow Growth Rate change over time, valuation is more 
complicated than this simple formula.  
There are two main ways to reflect this reality more accurately:  
1. Project the company’s cash flow s in detail  over the next 5, 10, or 15 years. Discount 
these cash flows to their Present Value and add them up. After that, assume that the 
company’s  Cash Flow Growth Rate and Discount Rate stay the same in the Terminal 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Period  and value the company in that  period using the formula above. Discount the 
company’s “Terminal Value” to its Present Value and add it to the discounted cash flows 
from the first 5, 10, or 15 years.  
 
2. Use valuation multiples  for the company’s near -term financial results , such as the next 
1-2 years, and don’t rely on long -term cash flow projections. Valuation multiples are 
shorthand  for cash flow -based valuation, assuming that you’ve picked the proper 
comparable companies and financial metrics.  
Method #1 is called  the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) Analysis , and it’s the most theoretically  
correct way to value a company.  
For example, you might project a company’s cash flows over the next 10 years, estimate a 
Present Value of $1,200 for the cash flows at a Discount Rate of 10% , and estimate the Present 
Value of the Terminal Value at $1,500.  
Based on that, the company’s Implied Value is $2,700.  
Since you’re valuing the company based on its cash flows  rather than  external factors like other 
companies , this method is often called intrinsic valuation . 
Method #2 is known as relative valuation . To use it, you collect sets of “comparable” 
companies and M&A transactions, calculate their valuation multiples, and then apply those 
multiples to the company you’re valuing.  
For example, similar companies in the sector trade at TEV / EBITDA multiples between 10x and 
12x.  
Your company has an EBITDA of $200, so it s Implied Enterprise Value should  be between  $2,000 
and $2,400.  
Once you’ve valued a company using both relative and intrinsic valuation, you can compare its 
Implied Value  to its Current Value . 
For example, maybe the company’s Current Enterprise Value is $2,000.  
Based on the analys es above – a DCF that produced an Implied Enterprise Value of $2,700  and 
comparable companies  that showed a n Implied TEV between $2,000 and $2,400, the company 
seems undervalued . 
As an investment banker advising this company, you might use this analysis to tell the Board of 
Directors the price they might expect if they decide to sell the company.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If you’re an investor at a private equity firm or hedge fund, you might use this information to 
suggest that it might make sense to invest in the company since it appears undervalued, and its 
stock price might increase in the future.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #2: Components of Unlevered Free Cash Flow  
The first step in a DCF analysis is to project the company’s cash flows in the explicit forecast 
period . 
“Explicit forecast period” usually means the next 5 -10 years, but it could mean 15 -20 or even 
30+ years, depending on the company and industry.  
As you know  from the guide  to Equity Value and Enterprise Value , there are different types of 
“cash flow”: Free Cash Flow, Levered Free Cash Flow, and Unlevered Free Cash Flow.  
You should use Unlevered Free Cash Flow (UFCF) in almost all DCF analyses . 
UFCF, which represents discretionary cash flow available from the core business to all investors , 
offers  two main advantages over the other types of Free Cash Flow:  
1) Consistency  – Since UFCF does not depend on the company’s capital structure, you will 
get the same results even if the company issues Debt or Equity, repays Debt, etc.  
 
2) Ease of Projecting  – You do not need to project items such as Debt , Cash , and the 
interest rates on Debt and Cash becaus e you ignore the Net Interest Expense in the 
analysis. That means less research and a faster conclusion.  
Unlevered FCF should consist of the following items:  
1. Revenue  (addition) . 
2. COGS and Operating Expenses  (deductions)  (deduct the full Lease Expense as well !). 
3. Taxes  (deduction) . 
4. Depreciation & Amortization (addition)  (and sometimes  other non-cash add -backs) . 
5. The Change in Working Capital  (could be  an addition or a deduction) . 
6. Capital Expenditures  (deduction) . 
You ignore huge chunks of the company’s Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement, 
including Net Interest Expense, Other Income / (Expense), most  of the non -cash adjustments, 
the entire Cash Flow from Financing section, and most of the Cash Flow from Invest ing section.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You ignore these items because they’re either non-recurring or relate only to specific  investor 
groups rather than all investors . 
In the previous guide, we defined Unlevered Free Cash Flow like this:  
• Unlevered Free Cash Flow:  Net Operating Profit After Taxes (NOPAT) + D&A and 
sometimes other non -cash adjustments +/ - Change in Working  Capital – CapEx . 
NOPAT corresponds to items #1, # 2, and #3 above (Revenue, COGS and Operating Expenses , 
and Taxes), and the Change in Working Capital and CapEx correspond to items #5 and #6 above.  
We do not include  all the “Non -Cash Adjustments”  shown on the Cash Flow Statement  – just 
Depreciation & Amortization , sometimes Deferred Income Taxes, and not much else.  
There are  two reasons for this treatment:  
1) Most of these other non-cash adjustments  are non-recurring (e.g., Gains and Losses,  
Impairments, and Write -Downs).  And when you project  Free Cash Flow, you ignore 
these non -recurring items  in future periods.  
 
2) Stock -based compensation, the other  common , recurring item  in this section, is NOT  a 
real non -cash expense and should not be added back to calculate UFCF.  And, per the 
definition above, it relates only to a specific  investor group ( common shareholders ). 
SBC is not a true non-cash expense because it creates additional shares  and dilutes the existing 
investors.  
Let’s say you have a house worth $10 million, and you pay someone to manage it for you.  
Instead of paying him a cash salary of $100,000 per year over 5 years, you award him a 1% 
ownership stake in the house each year. By the end, he owns 5% of the house.  
If you sell the house after 5 years, y ou’ll receive only $9.5 million – not $10.0 million – because 
the caretaker owns 5% of it.  
You haven’t paid this person a cash salary, but he  still costs  you money  because he has reduced 
your ownership in the house!  
It’s the same with Stock -Based Compensation: if you add it back as a non -cash expense, 
you’re getting a “free lunch” because you’re not reflecting the existing shareholders’ reduced 
ownership in the company.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For the rest of this guide, we’ll use Steel Dyna mics , a U.S. -based steel manufacturing company, 
in the examples . Starting with the company’s Income Statement, the highlighted lines show 
what we include  in the UFCF projections:  
 
Moving onto the Cash Flow Statement, we include the following highlighted items  in Cash Flow 
from Operations:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Finally, we ignore most  of the Cash Flow from Investing and Cash Flow from Financing sections : 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In this analysis, we decide not to count Acquisitions  in UFCF because the company does not 
disclose its acquisition strategy , and previous deals appear to be non-recurring.  
Also, both Acquisitions and CapEx make the same impact here: they increase the company’s 
capacity  to produce steel, but not necessarily its actual shipments  or revenue.  
Based on this review of the financial statements, the historical  UFCF outline for the company 
looks like this:  
 
The UFCF line is blank for now because we need to recalculate  the Income Taxes  based on EBIT 
rather than Pre -Tax Income , which require s more research.  
But now that we have this outline , we can work on the next part: determining how to project 
the company’s revenue, expenses, and CapEx based on its business model.  
Return to Top . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 3: Figure Out the Company’s Business and Your Financial Model  
The next step in a DCF, or any financial model, is to look through the company’s filings and 
investor presentations and get a sense of its revenue and expense drivers.  
The best approach depends heavily on the available time  and the required  model complexity . 
For example, if you have only 30 minutes, you might skip the drivers altogether and use simple 
percentages to make forecasts based on gr owth rates and margins.  
If you have a few hours, you might skim through the annual report and the most recent investor 
presentation and find 2 -3 relevant lines for Revenue, COGS, and OpEx.  
And if you have several days or weeks, you might read through dozen s of documents and 
project revenue and expenses in multiple segments.  
We take a middle -of-the-road approach here and use a modest amount of effort to build 
something more complex than “Revenue grows at X% per year.”  
If you review the company’s filings, you might initially think about splitting revenue into three 
main  segments: Steel Operations, Metals Recycling, and Steel Fabrications.  
The company lays out revenue, operating income, and CapEx for each segment:  
 
The problem, though , is that we want to project revenue based on tons of steel shipments  
and the price per ton , and the shipment data does not make sense : 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Some other issues  make revenue -by-segment a “not so great” idea as well:  
1) Steel Operations accounts for 75%+  of revenue. The other segments are after -thoughts.  
 
2) These other segments feed into  Steel Operations, with Metals Recycling often providing 
the raw materials for new steel production, so they’re not independent  business units.  
 
3) CapEx is minimal for the other segments (see above); Steel Operations drives 
everything.  
 
4) We’re assuming a time  limit  of 3 hours here, including data entry, which means we 
cannot spend 1  hour  trying to reconcile the shipment numbers.  
So, we believe it’s best to focus on Steel Operations  and project the revenue there using the 
Shipments, Average Price per Ton, Utilization Rate, and Shipping Capacity.  
The company does not directly close all these numbers, but we can back into ones like the 
Shipping Capacity by using the Utilization Rate data in the investor presentation:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The business logic is as follows, using simple numbers to illustrate the math:  
1) The company might initially have a Production Capacity of 1,000 tons per year.  
 
2) The company must spend something to maintain this Capacity each year (Maintenance 
CapEx), and it must pay employees to wor k in its factories, regardless of how much steel 
the factories produce and ship.  
 
3) If the company wants to grow  its Capacity, it can acquire new factories or build them 
(Growth CapEx).  
 
4) In a given year, the company’s Shipments equal its Capacity * Utilization Rate. If the 
Utilization Rate is 90% in one year, Shipments = 1,000 tons * 90% = 900 tons.  
 
5) Since industrial steel is a commodity, the market prices are outside the company’s 
control. The prices fluctuate but tend to converge on the long -term a verage  over an 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
extended period. If we say the Price per Ton is $800 in this example, the revenue in this 
year is 900 tons * $800 / ton = $720,000.  
 
6) Finally, we can make the Other Segments a simple percentage of the Steel Operations 
revenue based on historical averages.  
The company does not disclose Maintenance vs. Growth CapEx  explicitly, but the 10 -K provides 
enough information to back into these numbers : 
 
We can find the total amount invested into this new Sinton facility and the estimated new 
Capacity to forecast future Capacity from Growth CapEx.  
With the COGS and Operating Expenses, we need to figure out how much is fixed vs. variable  
(i.e., to what extent do these expenses increase when revenue increases, and to what extent do 
they remain about the same  when revenue increases ?). 
The company’s 5 -year summary helps answer  these questions:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Operating Expenses here consist mostly of employee salaries and benefits, so they depend 
on the employee count and the average annual amount paid to each employee.  
Regardless of the company’s  revenue and steel prices, its employee count keeps increasing 
over time as its Capacity increases, which is a sign these are relatively  fixed expenses:  
 
So, we could link Operating Expenses to Capacity here.  
The most important points are : 1) The vast majority of the company’s expenses are variable 
(COGS) ; and 2) For the company to grow its Capacity, it must  spend CapEx to build more 
plants.  
These facts give us enough information to start projecting the company’s UFCF.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 4: DCF – How to Project Unlevered Free Cash Flow  
Once you’ve figured out the company’s business model and your financial model setup, the 
UFCF projections should not be difficult.  
For a company like Steel Dynamics that depends heavily on CapEx to grow , we prefer to go in 
the following order:  
1) Revenue (assume no Capacity Growth at first).  
2) CapEx (both Maintenance and Growth, and then link this back into the Revenue).  
3) COGS and Operating Expenses.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
4) Taxes, the Change in Working Capital, D&A, and Deferred Taxes.  
5) Calculate and check Unlevered Free Cash  Flow.  
1) Project Reven ue. 
We explained in the previous section  the business logic. You could also use simple percentage 
growth rate s, market share * market size, or other methods, but for a steel company, 
Shipments * Price per Shipment makes the most sense:  
 
The “Units” named cell represents 1,000 because we’re dealing with Millions of Dollars but 
Thousands of Tons , so we need to convert when working with $ / Ton figures.  
We assume an elevated Sales Price per Ton and Utilization Rate based on the company’s 
numbers from Q1 and Q2 of this projected year, but we also assume they’ll fall over the next 
few years and then recover to their historical long -term averages.  
We also se t up a few assumption cells at the top so we can easily sensitize the Sales Price per 
Ton and Utilization Rate later  in the process:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These $800 and 90% figures persist for the last 6 years of these projections into the Terminal 
Period, and they’re both based on the company’s 10 -year averages . 
2) Project Maintenance and Growth CapEx.  
Maintenance CapEx is easier here . 
We can estimate it in the historical periods by assuming that the company -disclosed figures for 
the Sinton plant represent Growth CapEx and that Total CapEx – Growth CapEx = Maintenance 
CapEx.  
We then link this to a per -Capacity figure and use the 3 -year average to project it:  
 
For the Growth CapEx projections , we start ed by finding the company’s total estimated Sinton 
investment and subtracting the amounts spent so far to estimate the amount remaining in FY 
21 (when the plant construction finishes).  
For each year after that, we assumed declining Growth CapEx until it reache d $100 mil lion in 
Year 10, in -line with the company’s low historical spending.  
Yes, the company will keep expanding its Capacity, but slower  than in the last few historical 
years.  
For the Capacity Growth from CapEx, we found estimates of the Capacity from Sinton and 
another upcoming project and linked those to the Growth CapEx spending:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Finally, we add the Growth and Maintenance CapEx to get the total in the UFCF projections.  
3) Project COGS and Operating Expenses . 
Since COGS is the key variable expense, it’s fairly simple: a percentage of revenue that starts 
higher and then falls to a slightly lower level, in -line with the 10 -year historical average.  
For Operating Expenses, we calculated an OpEx per Employee figure, representing the average 
salar y + benefits  per employee , and then calculated the Shipping Capacity per Employee.  
We did it this way to ensure that the employee count keeps increasing, regardless of steel 
prices.  
With both metrics, we use historical averages or assume a modest increase over time and an 
eventual return to historical levels:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
4) Project Taxes, the Change in Working Capital, D&A, and Deferred Taxes.  
We now have enough to calculate EBIT, but to get NOPAT and Unlevered FCF, we still need a 
few items, such as the tax rate and estimates for various Cash Flow Statement line items.  
For the NOPAT calculation, we used the company’s average effective tax rate  (i.e., Taxes / Pre -
Tax Income on the Income Statement) of ~21%:  
 
The taxes here should NOT  reflect the tax-deductibility of interest on Debt.  
If we assumed lower taxes due to the company’s Net Interest Expense, the analysis would be 
invalid because we’re ignoring  the capital structure.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For the rest of the numbers, we make fairly simple assumptions: Depreciation & Amortization is 
based on Shippin g Capacity (similar to Maintenance CapEx), Deferred Income Taxes are a fairly 
low and declining percentage of Taxes, and the Change in WC is a percentage of the Change in 
Revenue.  
That gives us enough to calculate Unlevered FCF and EBITDA at the bottom:  
 
We could have easily made the Change in WC a percentage of revenue, and the numbers would 
have been similar.  
Remember what the “Change in Working Capital” means: does the company generate  more 
cash than expected as it grows, or does it require  more cash to fuel its growth?  
In other words, as the company’s sales grow, is its Change in Working Capital positive or 
negative?  
We don’t need to project the individual components of Working Capital as long as the 
projections answer that question, which they do . 
Finally, note that we calculate the Deferred Income Taxes % Income Statement Taxes based on 
the original  Income Statement taxes from the filings – not our recalculated numbers that 
exclude the tax benefits of Debt.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
5) Calculate and Check Unlevered Free Cash Flow.  
We already calculated Unlevered FCF in the previous step, but it’s worth checking a few points:  
• For a growing company , CapEx as a % of Revenue should be above D&A as a % of 
Revenue (they should not be equal by the end unless you assume the cash flows 
stagn ate or decline ). 
 
• The growth rates  for Revenue, EBIT, UFCF, and EBITDA should all approach low, single -
digit percentages by the end of the explicit forecast period, at least for mature 
companies  in developed countr ies. Otherwise, the transition to the Terminal Period will 
be too abrupt.  
 
• The EBIT Margin  and other items that are percentages of Revenue should stabilize by 
the end of the forecast, if not before that.  
 
• Optional:  You could also calculate and check metrics like ROIC, ROE, and ROE to make 
sure they stabilize by the end. However, this will require forecasts for Debt, Equity, and 
Total Assets, which is too much work under time pressure.  
Our numbers look like this:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
If an assumption were problematic, we could fix it by extending the projection period  and 
assuming more of a declining or stabilizing trend by the end.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 5: DCF – The Discount Rate and WACC  
Once you ’ve projected the company’s Unlevered Free Cash Flow  in this explicit forecast period, 
you discount those cash flows at the appropriate Discount Rate.  
The Discount Rate represents the opportunity cost  for the investor : what they could earn each 
year by investing in other, similar companies.  
A higher Discount Rate means the risk and potential returns are higher; a lower Discount Rate 
implies lower risk and lower  potential returns.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A higher  Discount Rate makes a company less valuable  because it means the investor has better 
options elsewhere; a lower  Discount Rate makes a company more valuable  because it means 
the investor has worse  options elsewhere.  
You can invest in a company in different ways: purchase its common shares, buy its bonds, buy 
its Preferred Stock, or purchase other securities it issues.  
Since companies have multiple sources of capital , they also have multiple Discount Rates, and 
each part of the capital structure has a different rate.  
The most important Discount Rates for valuation/DCF purposes are:  
• Cost of Equity:  This represents the “opportunity cost” for the company’s common stock 
– what investors could earn from stock  price increases and dividends.  
 
• Cost of Debt:  This one is for the company’s outstanding debt, and it represents the 
“yield” investors could earn from interest payments and the difference between the 
market value of the debt and the amount the company will repay upon maturity.  
 
• Cost of Preferred Stock:  This one is similar to the Cost of Debt, but it’s for Preferred 
Stock, which tends to have higher coupon rates;  Preferred Dividends are also not tax -
deductible , which makes Preferred Stock more expensive than Debt.  
If you’re wondering about Operating Leases and Finance Leases and how these should factor in , 
please see the section on Leases . 
The short answer is that it’s  easiest not to count  Leases  as capital, or at least not to count 
Operating Leases as capital. This is why we recommend ed deducting the full Lease Expense in 
the Unlevered FCF projections . 
To determine the overall  Discount Rate for the entire company, you calculate WACC , the 
Weighted Average Cost of Capital:  
WACC  = Cost of Equity * % Equity  + Cos t of Debt * (1 – Tax Rate)  * % Debt *  + Cost of Preferred 
Stock * % Preferred Stock  
WACC always pairs with Unlevered FCF because WACC and Unlevered FCF both represent all 
the investors in the company.  
If you invest proportionally  in the company’s entire capital structure, WACC gives you the 
expected, long -term annualized return.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if the company uses 80% Equity and 20% Debt , it has a 25% tax rate, and you 
decide to invest $1,000 in the company, you could calculate WACC with the following method:  
• Cost of Equity:  Similar companies’ stock prices have increased by 8% per year, on 
average, and their dividends have yielded an additional 2%. The Cost of Equity is 10%.  
 
• Cost of Debt:  The effective yield on the company’s Debt is 6%, other companies also 
have yields of around 6% , and the market value of the Debt is very close to its face 
value. Therefore, the pre -tax Cost of Debt is 6%.  
 
• WACC : The company has no Preferred Stock, so WACC  equals 10% * 80% + 20% * 6% * 
(1 – 25%) = 8.9%. 
So, you expect to earn an average  of $8 9 per year on your initial $1,000 over the long term . 
A significant portion of these returns come from stock -price appreciation, so you won’t earn 
$89 per year in cash until you sell your entire investment.  
The Cost of Debt and Cost of Preferred Stock  
These represent the rates the company would pay if it issued additional  Debt or Preferred 
Stock.  
You can’t predict these rates, but you can make a rough approximation by looking at the 
company’s current Debt and Preferred Stock.  
For example, if the company has $1,000 of bonds , and the coupon rate is 5%, you could say the 
company’s Pre -Tax Cost of Debt  is 5% . Interest on Debt is tax -deductible, so you multiply by (1 – 
Tax Rate) to use it in the WACC formula.  
If the company has $1,000 of bonds at a cou pon rate of 5.0% and another $1,000 of bonds at a 
coupon rate of 6.0%, then its Pre-Tax Cost of Debt is 5.5%.  
This exercise is similar for Preferred Stock, but since Preferred Dividends are not tax-deductible, 
you do not multiply by (1 – Tax Rate).  
There is another component of the Cost of Debt and Cost of Preferred Stock  as well : the market 
value vs. face value . 
If, for example, the company has $1,000 of bonds that are currently trading at $990, the yield  is 
higher than the bonds’ stated coupon rate.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You can buy the bonds for $990, which is effectively a 1% discount,  so instead of earning 5% per 
year on the bonds, you’ll earn slightly more if you hold them until maturity and the company 
repays the full $1,000.  
The opposite is true if these bonds trade at a premium to their $1,000 face value : the yield will 
be lower than t he 5% coupon rate.  
To estimate this “true” Cost of Debt , you can calculate the Yield to Maturity (YTM)  on the 
company’s current Debt issuances or use the YTM of Debt issued by comparable companies.  
With Steel Dynamics, we used a simple approach based on the following information in the 
company’s filings:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Based on these numbers, we calculated the YTM using the YIELD function in Excel  (we ignore d 
the $83 million of variable -rate Debt since it was insignificant and set for imminent repayment ): 
 
The result was a Pre-Tax Cost of Debt of 2.22% instead of a Pre -Tax Cost of 3.2 0% if we had 
ignored the market value.  
That sounds significant, but it change d WACC by only ~0.2% , so it ’s quite minor.  
Another approach is to take the Risk-Free Rate  – usually the yield on 10 -year or 20 -year 
government bonds in the country – and then add a “default spread” based on the company’s 
expected credit rating after it issues additional Debt.  
For example, if the company’s EBITDA  / Interest is currently 2x  and is expected to remain below 
2.5x  after another issuance , that m ight imply a BB+ credit rating.  
Companies with BB+ credit ratings might pay, on average, 2.5% above the Risk -Free Rate on the 
Debt they issue.  
So, if the Risk -Free Rate is currently 1.5%, the company’s Pre -Tax Cost of Debt is 4.0%. 
You could use any of these methods to estimate the Cost of Debt, and for most healthy  
companies, they will produce similar results.  
Steel Dynamics does not have Preferred Stock, so we skip ped the calculation here.  
The calculation  would have been similar , but we would not have multiplied by (1 – Tax Rate) 
because the Preferred Dividends are not tax -deductible.  
The Cost of Equity  
The Cost of Equity  is trickier to determine because you cannot observe it directly.  
It tells you how much a company’s stock “should” return  each year , on average, over the long 
term, factoring in both stock -price appreciation and dividends.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
25 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You usually use the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)  to estimate the Cost of Equity:  
Cost  of Equity  = Risk -Free Rate + Equity Risk Premium * Levered Beta.  
The Risk-Free Rate  (RFR) represents what you could earn on “safe” government bonds 
denominated in the same currency as this company’s financial statements . 
If it’s a French company but it has mostly U.S. -based customers , and it records its financials in 
U.S. Dollars, you would use the yield on long -term U.S. Treasur ies (10- or 20 -year government 
bonds ). 
On the other hand, if it’s a French company with mostly European customers and financials 
recorded in Euros, you would use the yield on long -term French or Eu ro area government 
bonds.  
Levered Beta  tells you how volatile  this stock is relative to  the market as a whole, factoring in 
both the intrinsic business risk and the risk introduced by leverage ( Debt).   
If Beta is 1.0, when the market goes up by 10%, this company’s stock goes up by 10%.  
If Beta is 2.0, when the market goes up by 10%, this company’s stock goes up by 20%.  
If Beta is 0.5, when the market goes up by 10%, this company’s stock goes up by 5%.  
You could  calculate Beta based on the company’s stock -price  history  or via analysis of peer 
companies.  Sources such as Capital IQ, Bloomberg, and Google and Yahoo Finance also offer 
estimates of Beta for individual companies.  
Finally, the Equity Risk Premium  (ERP)  represents the percentage the stock market will return 
each year, on average, above and beyond the yield on “safe” government bonds.  
This one is always linked  to the company’s country and domestic  stock market, but no one ever  
agrees on how to calculate it.  
The main points of disagreement are:  
• Do you use historical numbers  or projected ones ? Projected ones make more sense, 
but how can you “project” the stock market?  
 
• Do you use the arithmetic  or geometric  mean?  
 
• What period  do you use? Do you go back 10 years? 20? 50? 100?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
26 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You’ll see numbers ranging from 3% to 11% for the ERP , depending on the source and 
calculation method.  
Rather than arguing for one single, correct number, we look at a few data sources (e.g., 
Statista, Big 4 firms, and Damodaran’s annual data) and pick  a reasonable range of values.  
For Steel Dynamics in this example, we found numbers between 4% and 6%, depending on the 
source, and we settled on 5.5%  for the baseline number. In the sensitivities , we’ll look at what 
happens at lower and higher values.  
The Equity Risk Premium should be significantly higher in emerging markets such as Africa, Latin 
America, and parts of Asia  because the risk and potential returns are both higher.  
If the company operates in multiple countries, you might “weight” the Equity Risk Premium and 
multiply the ERP in each country by the percentage of revenue from that country to determine 
the company -wide ERP.  
Don’t obsess too  much over these calculations.  
In interviews, case studies, and modeling tests, it’s far more important to support your cash -
flow projections with solid data  and reasoning . 
The Process of Calculating the Cost of Equity  
As with most other financial modeling  topics , you could make the Cost of Equity calculation 
easy or difficult . 
Here’s the easy method:  
Cost of Equity  = Risk -Free Rate + Equity Risk Premium * Company’s Historical Levered Beta  
For Steel Dynamics at this time, th is formula became:  
Cost of Equity = 1.20% + 5.50% * 1.45 =  9.18%  
However, banks usually go beyond this and analyze the comparable companies to calculate 
the Cost of Equity.  
One reason is to get a proper range of values  for the Cost of Equity based on several different 
calculation methods, which results in a range of values for WACC as well.  
But another reason is that the point of a valuation is to determine a company’s Implied Value:  
what it should be worth  according  to your views . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
27 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Using the company’s past performance  to calculate Beta and the Cost of Equity corresponds 
more closely to its Current Value  rather than its Implied Value , which runs counter to the 
purpose of a valuation.  
So, just like you might calculate TEV / EBITDA for similar companies and then apply the median 
multiple to the company you’re valuing, you use a similar process with Beta.  
But it’s not as simple as using the median Beta from similar companies  because B eta always 
reflects two risks: inherent business risk  and risk from leverage . 
When you look up a company’s Beta in Google Finance , Capital IQ, or Bloomberg, it reflects 
both those risks.  
Each comparable company has a different capital structure, so the risk from leverage  differ s for 
each one.  
To remove this risk from leverage and isolate the inherent business risk , you have to “un -lever 
Beta.”  
And then you have to “re -lever Beta” to make it reflect the risk from  the leverage  of the 
company you’re valuing.  
Unlevered vs. Levered Beta has nothing to do with Unlevered vs. Levered Free Cash Flow . 
You complete this process of un -levering and re -levering Beta regardless of the Free Cash Flow 
you’re using . 
You need the Cost of Equity for both an Unlevered DCF and a Levered DCF, and the same 
components go into the Cost of Equity for each one.  
The only difference is that in an Unlevered DCF, you also need the Cost of Debt and Cost of 
Preferred Stock so you can calculat e WACC.  
Here’s a simple example  of un-levering and re -levering Beta : let’s say that “Levered Beta” for a 
comparable company is 1.00, and this company  has $500 of Debt and an Equity Value of 
$1,000. Its tax rate is 25%. 
Leverage accounts for part of this company’s risk, so we reduce Beta  by removing the risk from 
leverage:  
Unlevered Beta = Levered Beta / (1 + Debt  / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate)  + Preferred / Equity ) 
Unlevered Beta  = 1.00 / (1 + $500 / $1000 * (1 – 25%) + $0 / $1000 ) = 0. 7272 . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
28 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This result means that ~27% of this company’ s risk comes from D ebt. It’s not 33% , or 1 – 1.00 / 
(1 + $500 / $1,000) , because the tax-deductibili ty of interest reduces the risk of Debt.  
The formula includes a “1 +” in front of “Debt / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate)” to ensure that 
Unlevered Beta is always less than or equal to Levered Beta . 
We look ed up the financial information for each comparable company, un -lever ed Beta for 
each one, and calculate d the median Unlevered Beta:  
 
It’s best to use the market values of Debt, Equity, and Preferred Stock  for all the companies in 
this set , but it’s acceptab le if you can’t find them for Debt or Preferred Stock.  
Equity matters the most, by far, because the Market Value of Equity is almost always 
significantly different from its Book Value.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
29 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Once we have the Unlevered Beta for each company, we can take the median and re -lever it by 
flipping around the formula above:  
Levered Beta  = Unlevered Beta * (1 + Debt  / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate) + Preferred  / Equity)  
Let’s say the median Unlevered Beta for the comparable companies is 0.80. The company we’re 
valuing has $800 in Debt, Equity of $2,000, no Preferred Stock, and a tax rate of 25%. 
We can re -lever Beta with this formula:  
Levered Beta  = 0.80 * (1 + $800 / $2000 * (1 – 25%)) 
Levered Beta  = 1.04 . 
You can interpret this result as:  “If we ignore the risk from the company’s Debt, its stock price is 
~80% correlated wi th the stock market as a whole. But once we factor in the risk from Debt , its 
stock price moves nearly in tandem with the entire market .” 
We could then use this result to calculate the Cost of Equity for the company.  
If the Risk -Free Rate is 1.2%, the Equity Risk Premium is 5.5%, and Levered Beta is 1.04 : 
Cost of Equity  = 1.2% + 5.5% * 1.04  = 6.92 %. 
There’s j ust one small problem:  you don’t necessarily want to use the company’s current 
capital struct ure to calculate the Cost of Equity!  
This point goes back to the core purpose of valuation:  to calculate a company’s Implied Value  
and compare it with the company’s Current Value . 
You un-lever Beta from the comparable companies and re -lever it to move closer to that 
Implied Value , and you should do something similar with the capital structure.  
Finance textbooks often recommend using the company’s “optimal capital structure” or 
“targeted capital structure” t o do this.  
So, if the company eventually plans to use 4 0% Debt , 50% Equity,  and 10% Preferred Stock,  you 
should use those figures when re -levering Beta to calculate the Cost of Equity.  
But in real life, companies never disclose their planned capital structures.  
“Optimal capital structur e” is the mix of Debt, Equity, and Preferred Stock that minimizes 
WACC, but it’s impossible to observe or calculate.  
But you could use the median capital structure percentages of the comparable companies 
and apply them to your company to estimate its “optimal” or “targeted” structure.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
30 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Let’s say that we analyzed the comparable companies , and t he median Debt / Total Capital was 
20% , with a median Equity / Total  Capital of 80%.  
Our company with $800 of Debt and $2,000 of Equity has Total Capital of $2,800, so these 
percentages tell us that it “should have”  20% * $2,800  = $560  of Debt  and 80% * $2,800  = 
$2,240  of Equity.  
As a result, the calculations for both Levered Beta and Cost of Equity change:  
Levered Beta  = 0.80 * (1 + $56 0 / $2,24 0 * (1 – 25%)) = 0.9 5. 
Cost of Equity  = 1.2% + 5.5% * 0.9 5 = 6.43 %. 
The interpretation is simple: since this company should have  less Debt in the future, the risk 
from leverage will be  lower, which means that Levered Beta and Cost of Equity will be  lower . 
You don’t “have to” re -lever Beta or calculate the Cost of Equity using these different 
percentages for the capital structure.  
It’s just another method to establish a range of values  for the Cost of Equity.  
To summarize, there are three main methods:  
1) Cost of Equity based on Levered Beta from the comparable companies and the 
company’s current capital structure.  
 
2) Cost of Equity based on Levered Beta from the comparable companies and the 
“optimal ” capital structure  (i.e., use the percentages from the comparable companies).  
 
3) Cost of Equity based on the company’s historical Levered Beta and its current capital 
structure  (the easy method).  
Here’s what all three methods look like in this valuation:  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
31 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
If you’re wondering about the 27.5% vs. 29.3% for the % Debt, the problem is that Cleveland -
Cliffs is the only company with Preferred Stock, which distorts the median percentages.  
If we used 27.5% rather than 29.3%, the % Equity and % Debt would not add up to 100%, which 
is a problem when the company also has no Preferred Stock.  
Putting It All Together to Calculate WACC  
Now you understand everything that makes WACC tricky to calculate : 
WACC  = Cost of Equity *  % Equity + Cost of Debt * (1 – Tax Rate) * % Debt + Cost of Preferred 
Stock * % Preferred Stock  
• You could use the company’s current capital structure  or optimal/targeted capital 
structure  for the percentages of Equity, Debt, and Preferred Stock.  
 
• There are different approaches for calculating  the Cost of Equity , including un -levering 
and re -levering Beta based on the comparable companies or using the compa ny’s 
historical Beta.  
 
• No one agrees on the appropriate  Equity Risk Premium  in the Cost of Equity calculation.  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
32 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• And there are different approaches (Coupon rates, YTM, and the risk -free rate + a 
default spread ) for calculating the Cost of Debt  and Cost of Preferred  Stock . 
Our advice remains the same: don’t over -think the calculation . 
You should focus on finding a plausible range of values  for the Discount Rate, not beat ing 
Sauron with “one WACC to rule them all.”  
Here’s our final output for Steel Dynamics:  
 
Discounting the Cash Flows  
Now that we have the WACC range and average WACC, we can return to the Unlevered Free 
Cash Flow projections and discount each year’s UFCF to its Present Value . 
We could use the built -in NPV function in Excel, or we could use the standard PV formula:  
Present Value = Cash Flow / ((1 + Discount Rate)  ^ Year #)  
The only question is whether we should use the same  Discount Rate each year . 
After all, couldn’t a company’s risk profile change over time?  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
33 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Yes, it could.  
If the company grows and matures significantly in the explicit forecast period, it’s reasonable to 
start with a higher Discount Rate and gradually move to a lower one.  
For example, we might assume that the “long -term” Discount Rate in the Terminal Period is 
close to the rate for mature companies in this industry.  
But WACC might start at a higher number, in -line with high -growth companies  in the industry , 
and decline to this lower Discount Rate over 10, 15, or 20 years  as the company’s growth slows.  
For Steel  Dynamics, we used the same WACC each year because:  
1) The company is mature and isn’t expected to change significantly in the future.  
 
2) Other mature companies in this industry have WACCs in a similar range.  
So, we used the same Di scount Rate each year  along with the built -in NPV function to discount 
and sum up the UFCFs:  
 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 6: DCF – Terminal Value  
Once we’ve projected the company’s Unlevered FCF, calculated the Discount Rate, and 
summed up the Present Value of UFCF each year, we can calculate the company’s value in the 
far-future period , otherwise known as the Terminal Period . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
34 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This brings us back to the all-important finance formula:  
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate) , where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate  
This formula  alone  doesn’t  let you value any company because  the company’s Cash Flow, Cash 
Flow Growth Rate, and Discount Rate change over time . 
So, you project the company’s cash flows explicitly for the first 5, 10, 15 , or even 20+ years.  
But in the Terminal Period, you assume that the company’s Discount Rate and Cash Flow 
Growth Rate stay the same . 
The company’s Cash Flow keep s changing, but the two other components of that formula are 
constant.  
The company’s value in this Terminal Period  is called its Terminal Value , and we can use the 
same formula to calculate it:  
Terminal Value  = Unlevered FCF  in Year 1 of Terminal Period  / (WACC – Terminal Unlevered FCF 
Growth Rate)  
Since we need the Unlevered  FCF in Year 1 of the Terminal Period, we must project UFCF one 
year after  the explicit forecast period.  
The usual approach is to multiply the last UFCF in the forecast period by (1 + Terminal UFCF 
Growth Rate)  to estimate this number.  
So, if we expect the company’s UFCF to grow at 2% indefinitely, we might assume that its first 
UFCF in the Terminal Period equals its Final Forecast Year UFCF * 1.0 2. 
That’s why people often write the formula like this:  
Terminal Value  = Final Forecast Year UFCF * (1 + Terminal UFCF Growth Rate) / ( Discount Rate  
– Terminal UFCF Growth Rate)  
This way of calculating the Terminal Value is known as the Perpetuity Growth Method  or 
Gordon Growth Method . 
The Terminal UFCF Growth Rate should be low – below the long -term GDP growth rate of the 
country, and perhaps in -line with the rate of inflation.  
If the economy is growing at 3% per year, no single company could grow at 5% forever . 
If it did, eventually , it would be bigger than the entire economy!  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
35 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Even if a company grows at a higher rate initially, growth  always slows down over time . 
Here’s a growth progression that makes sense and another one that does not make sense:  
• Makes Sense:  In the explicit forecast period, UFCF growth is 10% in Year 1, and it 
declines to 3% by Year 10. The Terminal UFCF Growth Rate is 2 %. 
 
• Does Not Make Sense:  In the explicit forecas t period, UFCF growth is 10 % in Year 1, and 
it declines to 8 % by Year 10. The Terminal UFCF Growth Rate is 6 %. 
The second scenario doesn’t make sense because the UFCF growth doesn’t decline enough in 
the explicit forecast period, and the Terminal UFCF Growth Rate is far too high.  
In developed markets  such as the U.S., U.K., and Canada, yo u should use percentages in the low 
single digits (1 -3%) for the Terminal UFCF Growth Rate.  
But even in emerging markets, no company can grow at 6% forever . 
China or India might be growing at 6 -7% per year  right now , but that rate will decrease 
eventually , and individual companies  will grow at lower rate s in the long term . 
So, even if you’re in an emerging or frontier market, you shouldn’t use a dramatically  higher 
number for the Terminal UFCF Grow th Rate: you could reasonably use 2 -3% rather than 1 -2%, 
but 6% or 7% growth indefinitely into the future is too aggressive.  
“But wait,” you say, “This company is growing at 100% per year, and it won’t slow down for 
decades! It might become the biggest company in C hina or India!”  
Our response to that is: “OK – if you believe that, create longer -term UFCF projections that span 
several decades until the company becomes the biggest one in China or India and then starts to 
grow much more slowly as its markets become sat urated.”  
The UFCF growth rate at the end of the explicit forecast period should be fairly close  to the 
Terminal UFCF Growth Rate ; the projections must logically support the Terminal Value 
assumptions.  
Besides this Perpetuity Growth Rate Method, we could also calculate the Terminal Value with 
the Multiples Method:  
Terminal Value  = Terminal EBITDA or EBIT or NOPAT or UFCF Multiple * Relevant Metric  
We might base the Terminal M ultiple on the multiples of publicly traded comparable 
companies, but we sometimes apply a discount  because multiples tend to decrease over time  
as companies’ growth rates slow.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
36 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But it’s not always that simple because some industries are cyclical , which means that valuation 
multiples tend to increase and decrease over time.  
Since it’s tricky to pick the “correct” Terminal Multiple, we recommend starting with the 
Perpetuity Growth Rate Method and using the  Implied Multiple to check yourself.  
Here are the calculations for Steel Dynamics:  
 
STLD’s historical EBITDA multiples have always been between 6x and 12x , depending on steel 
prices at the time.  
So, we felt a baseline Terminal Multiple in the middle of this range was reasonable, given the 
historical multiples and industry cyclicality.  
Cross -Checking the Terminal Value  
If you have the time to do so, it’s also helpful to cross -check your assumptions, as we did in the 
screenshot above.  
For example, let’s say that you pick 3 % for the Terminal UFCF Growth Rate. That produces a 
Terminal Value of $1.5 billion, which implies a Terminal EBITDA M ultiple of 10x  based on 
EBITDA of $150 million in the final forecast year.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
37 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The comparable companies are currently trading at EBITDA multiples of 12x – 14x, and it’s a 
growing industry with lower expected growth in the future , so this result seems reasonable.  
But now , let’s say you pick a Terminal EBITDA M ultiple of 8.0x, which produces a Terminal 
Value of $2 billion. This implies a Terminal UFCF Growth Rate of 6%. 
Now you have a problem because this number is too high . You need to pick a lower multiple so 
that the  implied  Terminal UFCF Growth Rate makes sense for a developed market.  
Calculating the Implied  Terminal Multiple if you’ve used the Perpetuity Growth Method is easy : 
take the Terminal Value and divide by the EBITDA, EBIT, or another metric in the final forecast 
year.  
If you’ve used the Multiples Method, you can back into the Implied Growth Rate:  
Terminal Value  = Final Year FCF * (1 + Terminal FCF Growth Rate) / (Discount Rate – Terminal 
FCF Growth Rate)  
Implied Terminal FCF Growth Rate  = (Terminal Value * Discount Rate – Final Year FCF) / 
(Terminal Value + Final Year FCF)  
We’re not going to show the full derivation, but you start by multiplying both sides of the first 
equation by (Discount Rate – Terminal FCF Growth Rate) , and then you use algebra to isolate 
the Terminal FCF Growth Rate  on one side of the equation.  
We “cheat” a little because we use assumptions that make both methods produce the same 
results : 
 
But we could have easily gotten different result s. 
If it had not been so easy to use equivalent assumptions, cross -checking the numbers and 
revising them as required may have been helpful.  
Discounting the Terminal Value  to Its Present Value  
Once you’ve calculated the Terminal Value, you discount it back to its Present Value . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
38 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Remember that the Terminal Value represents the company’s value from the end of  Year 5, 10, 
or 15, onward into infinity . 
But you’re calculating what the company is worth today . 
If the Discount Rate stays the same each year, the standard  Present Value formula works:  
Present Value  of Terminal Value  = Terminal Value / ((1 + Discount Rate)  ^ Year #)  
If not, you’ll need to do something more complex (see the section on More Advanced DCF 
Features ). Here’s our simple calculation for Steel Dynamics:  
 
In an Unlevered DCF analysis, adding the PV of the Terminal Value and the PV of the UFCFs 
produces the company’s Implied Enterprise Value . 
We could stop here and compare this to the company’s Current Enterprise Value, and we might 
do that for certain private companies.  
However, for public companies and many private companies, it’s useful to go a step further and 
calculate the company’s Implied E quity Value  and Implied Share Price . 
One reason is that all the valuation methodologies are about valuing the company’s Equity ; the 
Debt, Preferred Stock, and other funding sources are much easier to value.  
Another reason is that if the FCF projections include unusual items, such as additional stock 
issuances  in the forecast period , we can capture their impact with the Implied Share Price 
metric  (since the diluted share count should reflect the additional sto ck). 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
39 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
To move from En terprise Value to Equity Value, we add non-operating Assets and subtract  
Liability and Equity line items that represent investor groups  outside the common shareholders.  
Then, we divide by the company’s diluted share count to calculate its Implied Share Price : 
 
There will be some small differences in this calculation depending on the treatment of Leases  
and whether the company follows U.S. GAAP or IFRS . 
We could also make the diluted shares calculation circular  by calculating the share count based  
on the Implied Share Price, but we skipped that step to simplify this model.  
Technically, we should also value the out-of-the-money options  and subtract them to calculate 
the company’s Implied Equity Value since they represent potential future ownership.  
However, these options tend to be worth little, and the calculations can be complicated, so 
banks rarely make this adjustment.  
There is one last point here : don’t double -count items . 
If you deduct  an expense within FCF, you should ignore  the corresponding Liability or Equity 
line item in the bridge to Implied Equity Value at the end.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
40 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
And if  you exclude  or add back  an expense within FCF, you should subtract  the corresponding 
Liability or Equity line item in the bridge.  
With Steel Dynamics, for example, the company’s Operating Expenses include its Rental 
Expense paid on Operating Leases.  
Therefore, since the UFCF projections deduct  this Operating Lease Expense, we do not subtract 
the corresponding Operating Lease Liability in the bridge (it’s listed but set to $0).  
On the other hand, if we were to  add back  this Operating Lease Expense so that EBIT became 
EBITR (“EBIT Before Rent”), we would deduct  the Operating Lease Liability in the bridge.  
This principle  also explains the treatment of the Interest Expense and Debt (UFCF excludes  the 
Interest Expense, so we subtract  Debt in the bridge) . 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #7 : How to Sensitize a DCF and Reach Conclusions  
One reason why the DCF is “real valuation,” while comparable public companies  and precedent 
transactions  are “valuation shortcuts” is that it’s easier to examine a range of possible 
outcomes in a DCF.  
For example, what if long -term  steel prices are higher or lower than expect ed? What happens if 
the company’s gross margins increase or decrease?  Or what if you’re wrong about the Discount 
Rate?  
Since all investing is probabilistic, you never  want to look at just one scenario or outcome. 
You always want to examine the full range of possibilities, even seemingly unlikely ones . 
There are two main ways to do this in a DCF: scenarios  and sensitivities , and they’re not 
mutually exclusive.  
Scenarios  tend to be useful when most assumptions and drivers change in one direction in a 
specific economic environment.  
For example, in real estate , when there’s a downturn, average rents fall, occupancy rates 
decline, and profit margins also fall becaus e landlords offer more incentives to attract tenants.  
Sensitivities  tend to be useful when the assumptions and drivers don’t necessarily correlate 
with each other.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
41 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, your estimate for the Discount Rate might be too high  (which reduces the implied 
value) , but your estimate for the Terminal UFCF Growth Rate might  be too high as well  (which 
increases the implied value).  
You can also create sensitivity tables based on operational scenarios, such as  the “Downside,” 
“Base,” and “Upside” cases.  
In almost any DCF analysis, you’ll sensitize the Discount Rate vs. the Terminal Growth Rate or 
Terminal Multiple  because the Discount Rate and Terminal Value both make a huge impact.  
Beyond these, you could also examine operational assumptions, such as the margins, revenue 
growth, and CapEx . 
Or you could sensitize the operational scenario vs. the Discount Rate or Terminal Value ; the 
best set depends on the company and industry.  
With Steel Dynamics, the company’s CapEx plans are unlikely to vary much, so revenue 
depends mostly on the Long -Term Steel Price  and the Utilization Rate  
The company’s Gross Margins are also important; historically, they’ve been between 15% and 
20%, but that 5% gap could mean the difference between a 10% and 15% operating margin.  
It’s not worth sensitizing the Operating Expenses because they are tiny next to COGS, and other 
items such as D&A, Deferred Taxes, and the Change in WC are insignificant.  
We could have set up scenarios  for the key operational assumptions  but decided against it 
because the relationship between Gross Margins and Steel Prices did not follow a clear trend.  
That left us with these tables (the areas in red  show the range of the company’s share price in 
the several months around the valuation  date ): 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
42 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
43 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Our conclusion  here is that Steel Dynamics look slightly overvalued  at its share price of $64.45 
as of the valuation date (and a range of approximately $58 to $73 in the adjacent months).  
The baseline DCF output says the company is overvalued by ~10%, and the tables indicate that 
it’s overvalued by between 5% and 15%.  
Overall, this result is fairly weak  because there isn’t much of a discrepa ncy here.  
Investors normally seek companies with much greater valuation discrepancies , such as ones 
that are off by 50 -100%, because the margin of error is so high.  
If we were bankers advising this company, we’d probably say that its current valuation is 
reasonable and that the Board should not expect a huge premium in the case of a sale . 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 8: Comparable Public Companies (Public Comps)  
“Valuation” refers to the discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis . 
The other valuation methodologies, such as comparable public companies and precedent 
transactions, are shorthand for valuation . 
Instead of projecting a company’s long -term cash flows, you compare the company to other, 
similar companies (or similar companies that were acquired) and use the v aluation multiples 
from those  companies to value your company.  
Even though these methodologies are less rigorous, they are still useful because they let you 
cross -check the results of a DCF analysis.  
Also, in some sectors, such as early -stage technology startups, the DCF is less useful because it 
requires too much guesswork about unproven markets that may not even exist yet.  
To use comparable public companies to value a company, you can follow these steps:  
1) Select  the appropriate set of comparable companies . 
2) Determine  the metrics and multiples you want to use.  
3) Calculate  the metrics and multiples for all the companies.  
4) Apply  the median multiples (or the 25th or 75th or other percentile  multiples ) to your  
company to estimate its Implied Enterprise Value and Implied Equity Value.  
We’ll cover each step in detail below:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
44 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
1) Select th e Appropriate Set of Comparable Companies  
You normally start with a broad set of companies and then narrow it based on industry , 
geography , and financial  size. 
You could get the initial list of companies from Google Finance, Capital IQ, Finviz, equity 
research, or even a company’s filings where it describes “the competition.”  
For Steel Dynamics, we started with this screening criteria:  
• Geography:  U.S. 
• Industry:  “Steel” (nothing more specific was available)  
• Financial Size:  LTM revenue greater than  or equal to $1 billion  
That produced a set of 26 companies, which was too large  to be useful, so we cut companies 
with under $2 billion in revenue and companies that were in the process of being acquired.  
After doing that, 9 companies remained, but we wanted to make this even more specific 
because “steel” is a broad industry description.  
The specific issue here was that some of these companies were processors and distributors, 
not manufacturers , while others were diversified and produced a lot more than just steel.  
We narrowed the set to 6 companies  based on this secondary , qualitative screen  (companies in 
italics  were eliminated) : 
 
A set of 5-10 companies  is a good target for this exercise, so we stopped here.  A set of 20, 30, 
or 50 companies is too large to be “comparable,” while a set of only 1 -2 companies is not useful 
because the data is limited and subject to outliers.  
This screen is important because you want these companies to have similar DISCOUNT RATES . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
45 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It goes back to the all-important formula:  
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate) , where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate  
When you pick “similar companies,” there’s a higher chance that the Discount Rate and Cash 
Flow figures will be in similar ranges.  
Therefore, if one company trades at higher multiple s than another, its Cash Flow Growth Rate 
should  be higher … in theory.  
The companies shown above have very different revenue figures, so their Cash Flows will be 
quite different – but their Discount Rates should be in a similar range  because they’re in the 
same industry and subject to the same risk factors.  
It’s impossible  to pick a set of comparable companies with  the same  Cash Flow figures, which 
illustrates one of the problems with comparable companies as a methodology.  
You should interpret the results and the rationale for a comparable company analysis as a 
“rough guide,” not a law of nature  (there’s a reason bankers are not physicists).  
There are few universal  rules for screening companies, but some heuristics include:  
• Revenue Screens:  Aim for companies with the same order -of-magnitude  revenue, and if 
that still leaves too many in the set, narrow it further.  For example, if your company has 
$10 billion in revenue, maybe go down to $5 billion and up to $50 billion for the screen. 
If that produces too many companies, narrow it to between $10 billion and $30 billion.  
 
• Geography:  If the company is in a large country, such as the U.S., China, or India, you 
can probably stick to that country. But if it’s in a small European country, such as 
Finland, you’ll probably need a broader screen, such as “Europe”  or “Nordic Countries.”  
And due to accounting differences, you should not group U.S. and non -U.S. companies . 
 
• Conflicting Screens:  Do not screen by both  Enterprise Value and EBITDA (for example) 
because by doing so, you’ll artificially constrain the multiples.  
Let’s say that you’re valuing a niche Software -as-a-Service (SaaS) company that provides 
software for GPS tracking and vehicle fleet management.  
You shouldn’t make the industry screen “SaaS companies providing transportation and logistics 
software” because there might be no  other public companies doing that.  
Even if there are 1 -2 other companies, the screen is still too specific to be u seful.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
46 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You should  expand it and use “Software -as-a-Service Companies” for the industry screen and 
narrow the set based on financial criteria.  
For example, you might limit it to SaaS companies with between $100 million and $1 billion in 
LTM revenue.  
If there are still too many companies in that set, you might narrow that screen even further 
until it produces only 5 -10 companies.  
2) Determine the Metrics and Multiples You Want to Use  
In most  industries, you’ll look at one sales -based metric (and its corresponding multiple) and 
two profitability -based metrics (and their corresponding multiples).  
For example, the following metrics and multiples are common in many industries:  
• Revenue , TEV / Revenue, and Revenue Growth  
• EBITDA , TEV / EBITDA, and EBITDA Growth and Margins  
• Net Income , P / E, and Net Income Growth and Margins  
There is no “best” metric. Each one has its streng ths and weaknesses, and in a valuation, you 
want to get the big picture  by examining many metrics and multiples.  
Sometimes, you’ll exclude  Revenue metrics and multiples and focus on the profitability -based 
ones, such as EBITDA, EBIT, and Net Income.  
And if you’re in an industry with significantly different metrics and multiples, such as 
commercial banks, you’ll use the metrics that are important there (P / BV, P / E, Total Assets, 
ROE, etc.).  
You also have to consider the time periods . 
You can look at a company’s historical  Revenue or E BITDA from last year or the past 12 months, 
but you can also look at its projected  Revenue or  EBITDA for the next 12 months , the next 
calendar year , or even 2 -3 years in to the future.  
You almost always use a mix of historical and projected metrics . Often, you’ll use one 
historical period and two projected periods for each metric . 
For example, if the valuation date is June 30th, 2030, you might use these revenue  figures for a 
comparable company : 
• Last Twelve Months (LTM) Revenue:  This is the company’s revenue earned between 
June 30th, 202 9, and June 30th, 2030; it’s based  on what happened in real life . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
47 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• Calendar Year 2030 Projected Revenue:  This is what the market expects the company 
to earn in revenue for this entire current calendar year  (Jan. 1 – Dec. 31, 2030) . It’s 
based on the results  from the first half of this year  and expectations  for the second half.  
 
• Calendar Year 2031 Projected Revenue:  This is what the market expects the company 
to earn in revenue for the next  calendar year  (Jan. 1 – Dec. 31, 2031) . This one is based 
100% on expectations  since the next year hasn’t started yet.  
Historical metrics are useful because they ’re based  on reality, but they can also be deceptive if 
there are non -recurring items, acquisitions , or divestitures . 
Projected metrics are useful because they assume that the company will operate in a “steady 
state,” without acqui sitions, divestitures, or non -recurring items, but they ’re also less reliable . 
3) Calculate the M etrics and Multiples for All the Companies  
Since you  use only public companies , the calculations are straightforward.  
You calculate each company’s Current Equity Value  and Current Enterprise Value  based on its 
share price  as of the valuation date , its shares outstanding , and its most recent Balance Sheet . 
Then, you retrieve the historical figures for revenue, EBITDA, Net Income, and any other metrics 
by reviewing the company’s annual and quarterly reports . 
To calculate the LTM figures, you take the previous fiscal year’s numbers, add the figures  from 
the most recent “partial period ,” (e.g., Q1 and Q2 of this year)  and subtract the figures from the 
same “partial period” in the previous year.  
We covered this process in the previous guide on Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and Valuation 
Multiples, so we’re not going to repeat it here.  
If the company has non-recurring charges  – Restructuring, Write -Downs, Legal E xpenses, 
Goodwill I mpairment, etc.  – then you’ll add back these charges  in the calculations for the 
financial metrics  affected by them.  
Just make sure they’re actually  non-recurring (e.g., they’ve occurred only once in the past 10 
years)  before doing this, as many companies try to claim all expenses are “non -recurring.”  
Once you calculate the historical versions of these metrics, you find the projected figures . 
The goal here is to assess the market’s expectations for each company , so you should not make 
your own projections.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
48 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Instead, you want to find consensus estimates from sources like Bloomberg, Capital IQ, FactSet, 
or even free sites like Finviz or Yahoo Finance if you don’t have access to the paid services . 
One issue with the projected metrics is that the comparable companies may have fiscal years 
that end on different dates . 
For example, one company’s fiscal year ends on June 30th, but another company’s fiscal year 
ends on September 30th. 
If that happens, you “calendarize”  the figures so that the metrics line up.  
For example, two of the companies in our set for Steel Dynamics had fiscal years ending on 
August 31st, but all the other companies had fiscal year s ending on December 31st: 
 
You can use fractions , as shown above, to add together portions of each company’s revenue, 
EBITDA, Net Income, etc., from different fiscal years to create “calendar year” figures.  
If most companies in the set have fiscal years ending on a date such as September 30th, but one 
company does not, you’ll use fractions to alter that one company’s fiscal year and make it end 
on September 30th. 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
49 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
One Final Note:  For both the historical and projected metrics , you ALWAYS  use the company’s 
Current Equity Value  or Current Enterprise Value  to calculate the valuation multiples.  
In other words, don’t “project” Equity Value or Enterprise Value . 
If a company is growing, its multiples should decline  into the future. For example, let’s assume 
that a company’s LTM Revenue is $1 ,000, its Year 1 Projected Revenue is $1 ,200, and its Year 2 
Projected Revenue is $1 ,500.  
If its Current Enterprise Value is $2 ,000, its TEV / Revenue multiples are 2x for the LTM period, 
1.7x for  Year 1, and 1.3x for Year 2.  
You don’t project Equity Value or Enterprise Value because a company’s share price already 
reflects its historic al performance and future expectations . 
To project  these items, you’d have to time travel into the future, see what expectations are at 
that point  in the future , and then time travel back to the present.  
Here’s our set of comparable public companies for Steel Dynamics : 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
50 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The quick conclusion  is that Steel Dynamics seems modestly  overvalued . Why?  
1) Its revenue is expected to decline by far more than the median decline among the 
comparable companies. The EBITDA decline is closer  to the median but still worse.  
 
2) Despite that, its TEV / Revenue and TEV / EBITDA multiples match or exceed the 
medians of the set.  
 
3) But we don’t  think this is a very strong claim because the numbers for Steel Dynamics 
are based on our views , not the market consensus. And we might have a more 
pessimistic near -term view of the company than research analysts do.  
4) Apply the Multiples to Your Company  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
51 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This last part is simple: calculate the minimum, 25th percentile, median, 75th percentile, and 
maximum for each version of each multiple  (see the screenshot  above) , and apply those 
multiples to your company to value it.  
Example:  The median LTM TEV / EBITDA multiple for the comparable companies is 12x. The 
LTM EBITDA of the company y ou’re valuing is $500 million. Therefore, your company’s Implied 
Enterprise Value  based on the median LTM TEV / EBITDA of the public comps is 12 * $500 
million, or $6 billion.  
You repeat this same process for all the multiples, and then you back into the company’s 
Implied Equity Value and Implied Share Price for each one : 
 
You complete this process because you want to get a range of Implied V alues for the company . 
No one ever knows exactly  how muc h a company is worth , so you can’t say, “Steel Dynamics is 
worth exactly $ 55.41  per share!”  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
52 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Instead, you want to say, “Steel Dynamics might be worth between $30.00 and $50.00 per 
share according to the revenue multiples, or between $30.00 and $40.00 per share according to 
the EBITDA multiples.”  
Even though the mechanics are simple, the big idea  may not be obvious.  
With Public C omps, you calculate  the company’s Implied Value  by using the Current Values  of 
other, similar companies.  
Unlike  in a DCF, where your views  of the company’s revenue, expenses, and cash flow 
determine the company’s Implied Value, the views of the market as a whole  determine the 
company’s Implied Value here . 
That’s why Public C omps count as a “relative valuation methodology” – you use m arket data, so 
the company’s Implied Value is based  on the values of other  companies.  
You should now understand  one major downside  of Public C omps: the market might be wrong . 
For this reason, you should consider relative valuation supplemental . 
You’ll almost always use methodologies such as Public Comps, and they can help support the 
results of your DCF, but they can’t “replace” the DCF unless there is a specific reason why it’ s 
not meaningful or practical for a certain company.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 9: Precedent Transactions (M&A Comps)  
Almost everything in the previous section on Comparable Public Companies also applies to 
Precedent Transactions . 
The main difference is that with this methodology, you calculate valuation multiples based on 
what acquirers have paid to buy other companies , not the current share prices of those 
companies . 
Here are  the key differences  in this methodology:  
• Screening Criteria:  You still screen by industry , geography , and financial  size, but the 
rules are based  on the seller . If the geographic screen is U.S. -based companies , it’s fine 
to use a deal with a U.S. -based  seller and a Japanese buyer . 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
53 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
One additional criterion is time . In some cases, it’s only useful to go back 2 -3 years, but 
in others, you might want to analyze transactions from 10 -15+ years ago. Particularly in 
cyclical industries, it’s useful to see the full range of multiples over the cycle.  
 
For the financial criteria, you often use Transaction Value  (Purchase Enterprise Value or 
Purchase Equity Value) rather than revenue , EBITDA , or Net Income . A $10 million 
acquisition is quite different from a $1 billion acquisition, so it’s important to capture 
transactions in a relatively  similar size range.  
 
Finally, you often use broader  screening criteria for M&A deals because there may not 
be enough deals if you use narrow  criteria . 
 
• Metrics and Multiples:  You still look at sales -based and profitability -based metrics and 
multiples, but you focus on historical metrics and multiples . LTM Revenue and LTM 
EBITDA are the most common ones.  
 
You do that because it ’s extremely difficult to find projections for acquired companies as 
of the time they were acquired . 
 
So, you use a shorter, simpler set of metrics and multiples: you might list each acquirer’s 
name, each target’s name, the Purchase Enterprise Value , the announcement date, the 
LTM Revenue and EBITDA, and the LTM TEV / Revenue and TEV / EBITDA.  
 
• Calculations of Metrics and Multiples:  With Precedent Transactions, everything is based  
on the purchase price as of the deal announcement date . The LTM figures are based  on 
the most recent data available at the time the deal was announced . 
 
Example:  A company has 100 shares outstanding, and its share price is $10.00. An 
acquirer announces plans to buy the company for $15.00 / share. Therefore, y ou would 
use 100 * $15.00, or $1,500, for the company’s Transaction Equity Value , and you 
would calculate the Transaction Enterprise Value using the company’s most recent 
Balance Sheet as of the deal announcement.  
 
If this transaction were  announced  on May 15th, the most recent financial figures would 
be from the quarter ending March 31st, so you would calculate the LTM figures based on 
that March 31st period . 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
54 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If this  transaction were announced  on July 5th, the June 30th results would not be 
available for a few weeks , so you would still use the March 31st results for the LTM 
figures and Balance Sheet data.  
 
If you use financial projections , you might base them on “Next Twelve Months” (NTM) 
figures , which means there is no need to calendarize anything.  All the transactions were 
announced on different dates, so you can’t calendarize because it’s impossible to align 
the dates.  
 
• Output:  You get the same output from Precedent Transactions that you do from Public 
Comps: the minimum, 25th percentile, median, 75th percentile, and maximum for each 
multiple.  
 
But the data tends to be less consistent  because companies get acquired for very  
different reasons. A “strategic acquirer” (i.e., a normal company) might pay a ridiculous 
amount because the CEO is having an affair with the VP of Sales at the target company 
or because the CFO dreams about unicorn s delivering synergies  via magical rainbows.  
 
But a private equity acquirer would take a more analytical approach and pay based o n 
the company’s financial value.  
 
Often, Precedent Transactions produce higher  multiples than the Public Comps because 
of the control premium  built into M&A deals.  
 
To acquire 100% of another company, the buyer must offer a premium  above the 
seller’s c urrent share price. For example, if the company’s shares are trading at $10.00, 
why would  the shareholders approve a deal in which the buyer offers the same $10.00 
per share? They could get that same price by selling their shares individually ! 
 
So, the acquirer might have to offer $12.00 or $15.00 per share to do the deal. This 
“extra amount” above the seller’s current share price is the control premium . 
 
Control premiums vary based on industry and geography, but they’re often between 
10% and 30% . They apply to both  public and private companies, but the premium is 
difficult to quantify for private compan ies because they don’t have readily available 
“share price s.” 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
55 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Transaction Types and Structures:  Ideally, you will use true acquisitions  – deals where 
one company buys 100% of another company – in your set of Precedent Transactions.  
 
In many cases, however, there won’t be enough  100% acquisition deals, so you’ll also 
have to use acquisitions for less than 100% of the other company . 
 
It’s f ine to use majority -stake deals , i.e., ones where the acquirer purchased at least 
50% to gain control  of the seller , but you should NOT  include both minority and 
majority -stake deals ; the dynamics differ, and there may not be a control premium for 
acquisitions of minority stakes.  
 
M&A deals can be structured  in different ways, which also creates issu es with Precedent 
Transactions.  
 
For example, some deals include earn -outs  where a portion of the purchase price is paid 
out several years into the future  if the selle r meets certain financial goals (e.g., the seller 
receives $200 million upfront and $100 million in 3 years if it reaches $50 million in 
EBITDA by then).  With earn -outs, you might assume a 50% payout probability and then 
add 50% of the earn -out amount to the Transaction Enterprise Value.  
 
It’s also worth noting if a deal is stock , cash , or a mix of both; buyers might pay higher 
prices if they issue stock to do deals because stock often seems like “fake money” to 
executives.  
You can screen for Precedent Transactions via paid services like Capital IQ and FactSet.  
If you do not have access to th ese services, it will be nearly impossible to find deals and get the 
required data for all of them, so you should probably skip this analysis . 
If you urgently need a set of Precedent Transactions and you can use only free sites, your best  
bet is to find one recent deal  in the industry  (search the news) , Google [“Fairness Opinion” 
[Buyer Name] [Seller Name] sec.gov ] and try to find a Fairness Opinion from a bank that lists 
recent transactions.  
For example, we could do a search like the one below to find possible transactions for Steel 
Dynamics:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
56 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Surprisingly, the Goldman Sachs Fairness Opinion here does not have a set of Precedent 
Transactions – but the one by the other deal advisor (Moelis) does:  
 
We did not use this set because it includes non -U.S. companies , and most of the deals were 
quite old , but it was an option.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
57 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here’s our set of Precedent Transactions for Steel Dynamics:  
 
The Bottom Line:  Precedent Transactions are useful for valuing companies that lack good Public 
Comps or have difficult -to-forecast cash flows.  
However, they are less reliable than the other methodologies because of the issues described 
above.  
If you look at the sets of Precedent Transactions throughout our modeling courses, they often 
produce the most random  output  with the widest ranges of valuation multiples.  
You need to know about Precedent Transactions for interviews, and you’ll usually use them in 
valuation s, but they are even more “supplemental” than Public Comps.  
Return to Top . 
 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
58 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule #1 0: The “Football Field”: How to Put Together a Full Valuation  
When you’ve finished the DCF, Public Comps, and Precedent Transactions, you can see how all 
the methodologies stack up.  
You do this by showing the range of multiples from each methodology on the same page.  
Then, you follow the same process that we demonstrated with the Public Comps : calculate the 
Implied Enterprise Value based on each multiple and the company’s applicable figure, back into 
the Implied Equity Value, and divide by the di luted share count to get the Implied Share Price.  
The goal is to establish a plausible range of values  for the company based on relative and 
intrinsic methodologies.  
Here’s our summary page for Steel Dynamics:  
 
For the DCF range, we used the following points in one of the operational sensitivity tables:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
59 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
With this  data , we then used the Stacked Bar  chart in Excel to create the “Football Field” graph 
that visualizes each methodology:  
 
We typically restrict this graph to the 25th to 75th percentile because showing the minimum and 
maximum values for each methodology would produce a uselessly wide range.  
Our main conclusion  is that Steel Dynamics seems modestly overvalued, primarily based on the 
Public Comps and DCF.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
60 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Its current share price is above the share price implied by the medians of these methodologies 
(the LTM P / E and LTM TEV EBITDA multiples  are exceptions ). 
And while the LTM TEV / EBITDA multiples from the Precedent Transactions show a much 
different result, the control pre mium  means that it’s also an expected result: a median multiple 
that’s ~40% higher is on the high side, but not completely unreasonable.  
The next steps here depend on where you’re working  and the purpose of this analysis.  
For example, if you’re working at an investment bank and you advise companies on deals, you 
might tell the Steel Dynamics Board of Directors the following : 
• Company Value  – If the team wants to know what the company is worth,  you’d likely 
tell them, “Betwee n $40.00  and $ 55.00 per share .” 
 
• It’s Probably Not a Good Time to Sell  – The company trades at a premium to its intrinsic 
value, and it seems quite expensive compared with close competitors such as Nucor. 
Adding a 30% premium on top of the current share price would make the company even 
more expensive, and there probably aren’t good strategic buyers at that price (and 
private equity  tends to avoid highly cyclical industries).  
 
• But It Might Be a Good Time to Raise Equity  or Make Add -On Acquisitions  – 
Companies benefit from issuing stock when they trade at higher multiples and 
premiums to their intrinsic values; stock issuances produce  less dilution in those cases 
because the company can issue fewer shares to raise the same amount of capital.  Steel 
Dynamics could also use its highly -priced stock to acquire smaller companies and  assets 
and dilute itself less in the process.  
On the other hand, if you’re working in a buy-side role , such as at a hedge fund or private 
equity firm, your interpretation would be different.  
In these roles, the key question is whether or not you should invest in a company.  
Buying a company  or a small stake in a company  makes the most sense when it appears to be 
undervalued  and when specific events (“catalysts”) might cause the share price to change in 
the next 6 -12 months.  
A private equity firm mi ght conclude that since Steel Dynamics trades at a premium to its 
intrinsic value, it is not a great investment right now.  
The firm might still build a leveraged buyout model and see if it could achieve its targeted IRRs, 
but the valuation would make a deal less likely.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
61 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A hedge fund might conclude that the company is overvalued  and that its share price could 
decline in the next 6 -12 months.  
Potentially, that makes it a “Short” candidate (i.e., the fund borrow s shares to sell  and then 
buys them back  at a lower price to profit if the share price declines).  
But most hedge funds would probably stay away because the company is not overvalued by 
that much . 
The margin of error is so high that most funds prefer to bet for or against companies when  they 
are significantly mispriced  (e.g., 50%, 100%, or more).  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 11: DCF – More Advanced Features  [OPTIONAL]  
There are a few advanced points related to the DCF analysis , but you’re unlikely to get 
interview questions about these topics, so you can consider this section optional.  
The Mid -Year Convention and Stub Periods  
When you use discount periods of 1, 2, 3, 4, and so on  (or the built -in NPV function) , these 
numbers imply that the company’s cash flows arrive at the end of each year.  
But that’s not true: the company generates cash flow every day , and on average , that cash flow 
is evenly distributed  throughout each year  (with exceptions for highly seasonal companies).  
So, it is more accurate to use discount periods such as 0.5, 1.5, 2.5, and 3.5 when you’re 
calculating the Present Value of Free Cash Flows.  
Using these discount periods in a DCF is known as the “Mid -Year Convention” because you’re 
assuming that the cash flows arrive midway through each year . 
The company’s Implied Value increase s because the cash flows arrive earlier, and money 
today is worth more than money tomorrow.  
Excel cannot set this up with built -in functions, but you can calculate the Present Value of each 
cash flow manually and substitute in the changed year number (0.5 i nstead of 1.0, etc.).  
You could also use a “Cumulative Discount Factor ,” which is based on 1 / ((1 + Discount Rate) ^ 
Year #) in Year 1 . After Year 1 , the Cumulative Discount Factor equals the previous Cumulative 
Discount Factor * 1 / ((1 + Discount Rate) ^ Year #).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
62 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You multiply this Cumulative Discount Factor by the Unlevered FCF to calculate the PV . 
Here is the traditional method vs. the Mid -Year Convention : 
BEFORE:  
 
AFTER:  
 
The PV of each Unlevered Free Cash Flow increases because it’s generated earlier.  
There’s another, trickier  feature that also results from timing differences: stub periods . 
When you value a company on a specific date, much of its cash flow for the year has  already 
been generated  (unless you’re valuing it on January 1st). 
So, you should reduce  the projected  cash flow for the current year by the amount that the 
company has already  generated.  
For example, if it’s April 30th, the company is projected to generate $1,000 in FCF for the year , 
and it has already  generated $300, you would subtract the $300 and use $700 for the FCF for 
the first period in a DCF.  
But you also need to change the discount periods  because April 30th to December 31st 
represents 2/3 of the year . 
This interval between April 30th and December 31st is called the stub period . 
To determine the discount period for this stub period , take the remaining days of the year and 
divide by the total days in the year.  
There are 245 days between April 30th and December 31st and 365 total days in the year, 
assuming it’s not a leap year.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
63 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Since 245 / 365 = 0.671, 0.671 will be the discount period  for this first year.  
The first discount period in a DCF will be 0.671 rather than 1.000, the next period will be 1.671 
rather than 2.000, and the next one will be 2.671 rather than 3.000.  
You subtract the already -generated cash flow only in the first period; the projected cash flow in 
all the subsequent years is the same because no cash flow for Years 2, 3, and beyond has been 
generated  as of April 30th of Year 1.  
You can also combine the stub period with the mid -year convention . 
If you do this, the first discount period will be the stub period fraction divided by 2.  
Continuing with the April 30th example, dividing by 0.671 by 2 produces  0.336.  
By doing this, you’re saying, “Let’s assume that the cash flow arrives midway  between today  – 
April 30th – and the end of the year  – December 31st.” 
“Midway through the year” means August 31st here.  
In each period AFTER that first one, you take the normal discount period and subtract 0.5 . 
Here are the normal and mid -year discount periods for a valuation date  of April 30th, 2021: 
 
You do NOT  keep dividing the “Normal Discount Period” by 2 – that’s only in Year 1!  
If you divided the FY 22 “Normal Discount Period” by 2, you’d be saying that the cash flow for 
FY 22 arrives midway between  April 30th, 2021 and December 31st, 2022. 
In other words, you’d be saying that the 2022 full-year cash flow  arrive s on March 1st, 2022. 
But that’s not what happens! Assuming  the 2022  cash flow is evenly distributed , it should arrive 
on June 30th, 2022 – midway through that year . 
By using the correct discount period of 1.171 for FY 22, you’re saying:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
64 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
“Today is  April 30th, 2021. We don’t get any 2022 cash flows in the year 2021 , so let’s add the 
whole stub period of 0.671.  We do get cash flows in 2022 , but they arrive midway through 
the year, so let’s add 0.5 to reflect that we get them midway through 2022 . 0.671 + 0.500 = 
1.171.”  
If you go out another year, you add 0.671 for the remainder of FY 21, 1.000 for all of FY 22 
(since no 2023 cash flows arrive then), and 0.500 for the cash flows that arrive midway through 
FY 23. 
That produces 2.171 for the mid -year discount period  for FY 23. 
The mid -year convention and stub periods affect not only the Present Value of a company’s 
Free Cash Flows but also the Terminal Value  and the PV of the Terminal Value . 
If you use the Multiples Method, you still get the Terminal Value at the end of the final forecast 
year because the Multiples Method is based on the financial results in that entire year.  
The mid -year convention does not factor in – only stub periods do.  
For example, let’s say there’s a 0.3 34 stub period because the valuation date is August  31st. 
When you calculate the PV of the Terminal Value  in a 10 -year analysis , you should discount it 
based on a period of 9.334  rather than 10.000 because the first period is only 3 3.4% of a year.  
If you use the “Cumulative Discount Factor, ” all your numbers will be based on this 0.3 34 in 
Year 1, 1.3 34 in Year 2, and so on.  
Now consider the same stub period and the mid-year convention , which affects only the 
Perpetuity Growth Method.  
If you use the Perpetuity Growth Method, the Terminal Value calculated with Terminal Period 
Year 1 UFCF / (Discount Rate – Terminal UFCF Growth Rate) still corresponds to the 9.3 34 
period, assuming a n August 31st valuation date in Year 1.  
However , since you’re using the mid -year convention, you should discount this Terminal Value 
to Present Value based on a period that’s half a year earlier : 8.834 rather than 9.334.  
Since Terminal Value under the Perpetuity Growth Method is based on cash flows , and since 
these cash flows arrive half a year earlier with the mid -year convention , you should also 
discount the Terminal Value to Present Value based on a slightly earlier period.  
You could potentially adjust the Terminal Value rather than discounting it based on a different 
period, but that method is more confusing , so we recommend using a discount period that’s 
half a year earlier.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
65 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If you’re using the Cumulative Discount Factor, you will also use slightly different discount 
periods for the first two years (0.334 / 2 = 0.167  and 0.8 34 – 0.167 = 0.6 67), followed by an 
additional 1.0 for each subsequent period.  
As a result, the PV of the Terminal Value will be higher when you use the mid -year convention 
with the Perpetuity Growth Method . 
The Normalized Terminal Year  
Even if you project 10, 15, or 20 years of a company’s cash flows , you may have to go one year 
beyond that  because the final year may not represent  the company into perpetuity.  
For example:  
• What if a key patent for a pharmaceutical company expires  in Year 9 or 10?  
 
• What if the company has a huge Other Intangibles  balance that gets completely 
amortized and goes to $0 in Year 10?  
 
• What if the company’s planned CapEx  or its expected operating margins  will change 
significantly after Year 10?  
 
• What if the company’s FCF Growth  in Year 10 is very different from the range of 
Terminal FCF Growth Rates you’ve selected?  
In these cases, it’s worth creat ing a Normalized Terminal Year  and using the FCF in this 
“normalized year” in the Terminal Value calculations.  
Here’s an example of a pharmaceutical company (Jazz) with some of these issues : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
66 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
As a result , we no longer multiply the Year 10 FCF by (1 + Terminal FCF Growth Rate) to 
calculate the first Free Cash Flow in the Terminal Period  – instead, this Normalized Terminal 
Year FCF is the first FCF in the Terminal Period.  
Creating a Normalized Termina l Year could make the company’s Implied Value from a DCF 
higher or lower depending on the assumptions.  
However, in most  cases, the Normalized Terminal Year reduce s a company’s Implied Value 
because the growth rate and margins tend to be lower  in this period.  
Net Operating Losses  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
67 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Remember one of the key principles for calculating FCF and backing into the company’s Implied 
Equity Value in a DCF : 
If you deduct an expense or add an income line item within Free Cash Flow, you should NOT 
include the corresponding Liability or Asset in the “bridge .” 
The opposite applies if you exclude  an income or expense line item within FCF.  
So, it’s easiest to count Net Operating Losses  as non -operating Assets and add them when 
moving from Implied Enterprise Value to Implied Equity Value in the bridge . 
But you could also make them reduce the company’s Cash Taxes each year  and allow for the 
creation of new NOLs if the company’s Operating Income turns negative:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
68 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If you’re tracking the Cash Taxes directly in the DCF rather than Book Taxes and Deferred Taxes  
separately , no adjustments are required; if not, you’ll have to reflect the NOL usage and 
creation in the Deferred Tax line.  
We recommend against this setup for a few reasons:  
1) What if the NOLs haven’t been used up by the end of the forecast period?  You’ll run 
into problems because the FCF projections alone won’t capture their full value , and you 
may not know their expiration dates.  
 
2) It takes more work  to set up the analysis this way, and it doesn’t add much since the 
Balance Sheet va lue of the NOLs is usually a decent proxy for their future tax -savings 
potential . 
 
3) If the company has negative Operating Income , that would create extra NOLs and 
increase the chances of the full NOL balance not being utilized by the end  – as in the 
example above for Uber.  
Noncontrolling Interests and Equity Investments (Associate Companies)  
Do not include Net Income Attributable to/from these items in the UFCF projections.  
It would be extremely confusing if you tried to do this because you’d have to reverse the 
partially -owned companies’ taxes, interest expense, etc., to adjust EBIT . 
Most companies do not disclose nearly enough information to do this, and it’s far easier to 
count these items in the TEV bridge at the end.  
If you’re building a Levered DCF, you have to  include these items because the starting point is 
Net Income to Common  – but we recommend against that analysis in most cases (see the next 
section).  
Noncontrolling Interests and Equity Investments should not affect the company’s Unlevered 
FCF at all.  They should be items in the bridge and nothing else.  
The Levered DCF, Adjusted Present Value (APV), and Other Variations  
In addition to the standard Unlevered DCF analysis, which we recommend in almost all cases, 
there is also the Levered DCF analysis.  
In this one, you calculate the Free Cash Flow available only to equity investors in the company, 
and you calculate the company’s Implied Equity Value directly.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
69 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
That creates many differences in the analysis, including:  
1) Cost of Equity, Not WACC  – Since Levered  FCF is availa ble only to equity investors, you 
use the Cost of Equity for the Discount Rate since it represents only the equity investors.  
 
2) Subtract the Net Interest Expense and Add/Subtract Net Borrowings  – These items all 
affect the cash flow to equity investors, so you must factor them in. Effectively, you start 
with Net Income to Common rather than NOPAT and include  changes in the company’s 
Debt principal.  
NOTE:  There is some disagreement about what to add  and subtract , with the main 
options being “all changes in Debt ” vs. “just the repayments ” vs. “just the mandatory 
repayments .” 
 
3) Terminal Value with P / E or Equity Value -Based Multiples  – You’re considering only 
equity investors, so Terminal Value calculated with the Multiples Method should use an 
Equity Value -based multiple . 
 
4) Calculate Implied Equity Value Directly at the End  – You don't need a "bridge" between 
Equity Value and Enterprise Value because the analysis never produces the Implied 
Enterprise Value. In a Levered DCF, adding the PV of Free Cash Flows and the PV of the 
Terminal Value produces the Implied Equity Value directly . 
 
5) You Must Reflect the Items Formerly in the Bridge in the FCFs  Instead  – So, you need 
to factor in the tax savings from NOLs, Interest Income and Interest Expense, Preferred 
Dividends , the entire Pension Expense, and more . You must also deduct the entire  Lease 
Expense  regardless of the accounting system.  And you have to include Dividends from 
Equity Investments, adjustments for Non -Cash Interest, and anything else that affects 
the items that used to be in the TEV bridge.  
To give you a flavor of these differences, here are a few screenshots of the Levered FCF 
projections in a modified DCF, with the changes and new lines highlighted in yellow : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
70 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
71 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We strongly recommend against the Levered DCF unless someone has specifically  asked you 
to build one . 
Here are some of the many problems with it:  
1) It takes more time and effort  because you have to project  the company’s Cash and Debt 
balances, Net Interest Expense, changes in Debt principal , and more.  
 
2) The FCF numbers are more  volatile than th ose produced by an Unlevered DCF because 
the Debt principal repayments could be $0 in some years and massive in others.  The 
company’s capital structure will heavily influence its implied value.  
 
3) You will NOT  get the same results from a Levered DCF analysis because it is almost 
impossible to pick assumptions  that are “equivalent” to those in an Unlevered DCF.  
 
4) There’s disagreement about how to calculate Levered FCF . Some people factor in all 
Debt issuances and repayments, some factor in all repayments but no issuances, and 
some factor in only  mandatory repayments.  
An Unlevered  DCF is easier to set up  and produces more consistent  results that depend far less 
on a company’s capital structure.  
There are a few specialized cases where a Levered DCF might be helpful  (e.g., with Equity 
REITs) , but 99% of the time , the Unlevered DCF is superior.  
A related con cept is the Adjusted Present Value (APV)  analysis. It’s similar to an Unlevered  DCF, 
but it values the “tax shield” from a company’s Debt and adds the value of that tax shield to the 
company’s Implied Enterprise Value.  
You still calculate Unlevered Free Cash Flow and Terminal Value in the same way, but a few 
other components change:  
• Discount Rate:  You use the Unlevered Cost of Equity  instead of WACC. To calculate it, 
you un -lever Beta for each peer company and take the median, but you do not re-lever 
it. You use this median Unlevered Beta in the usual formula for Cost of Equity and ke ep 
the Risk -Free Rate and Equity Risk Premium the same.  
 
• Interest Tax Shield:  You project the company’s Net Interest Expense and multiply it by 
the Tax Rate to determine the tax savings from interest. But you also have to ensure 
that this number is less th an the total amount of Taxes in the EBIT → NOPAT calculation.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
72 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If it’s not, you use that total tax number instead and use the excess interest tax shield to 
offset future  taxable income.  
 
• Discount Rate for Interest Tax Shield:  Once again, you use the Unlevered Cost of Equity.  
 
• Interest Tax Shield Terminal Value:  You calculate the Terminal Value of the Interest Tax 
Shield with  Tax Rate * Debt in Terminal Year * Unlevered Cost of Equity * (1 + Terminal 
FCF Growth Rate) / (Unlevered Cost of Equity – Terminal FCF Growth Rate)2 
That formula says that the value of the future benefits from the Tax Shield is proportional to 
the company’s Tax Rate, Debt, and how quickly its cash flows are growing relative to  the 
Discount Rate.  
You sum up the Present Value of the Unlevered FCFs , the PV of Terminal Value, the PV of 
Interest Tax Shields, and the PV of the Interest Tax Shield Terminal Value to get the company’s 
“Adjusted Present Value,” which is a variation of its Implied Enterprise Value.  
You then back into the company’s Implied Equity Value and Implied Share Price with the sa me 
bridge  between Enterprise Value and Equity Value.  
Some people argue that the APV method produces “more accurate results” because it accounts 
for the tax benefits of the interest expense , while the Unlevered DCF does not.  
The APV method addresses that one specific issue, but it also creates many new problems:  
• No Downside for Debt:  It’s incorrect to include only the benefits  of Debt without also 
factoring in its major downside: the increased risk of bankruptcy. You could attempt to 
add thi s risk to the APV analysis, but no one agrees on how to estimate the probability 
of bankruptcy.  
 
• Overstated Values for Firms with High Debt Balances:  The APV method will produce 
high values for companies with high Debt balances because of the Interest Tax Shield. 
But companies with high Debt balances should have  lower implied values  because the 
risk of bankruptcy starts to outweigh the tax benefits of Debt above a certain level.  
 
• The R equirement  to Project the Interest Expense:  It takes extra time and effort to 
forecast the company’s Interest Expense because you must project its Debt and Cash 
balances . 
While the traditional Unlevered DCF has its flaws, using WACC for the Discount Rate accounts 
for both  the benefits and risks of Debt . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
73 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The APV method  addresses one minor issue with the Unlevered DCF but creates more serious 
problems in the process, which is why we recommend against it . 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 12: Supplemental Valuation Methodologies  [OPTIONAL]  
Besides the three main met hodologies , there are a few others.  
Asset -Based Valuations  
Remember the definitions of Equity Value and Enterprise Value: they’re both linked to a 
company’s Balance Sheet  because they relate to its Net Assets vs. Net Operating Assets.  
Since Equity Value represents the value of the company’s Net Assets to the common 
shareholders, why not assi gn market values to the company’s Assets and Liabilities directly?  
If we did that,  we could then subtract the market -valued Liabilities from the market -valued 
Assets to get the company’s Implied Equity Value . 
This method is called a Liquidation Valuation , but it also goes by other names, such as  the “Net 
Asset Value”  (NAV)  model.  
We usually assume that each Liability is worth 100% of its book value or face value, under the 
assumption that they all need to be repaid if the company shuts down . 
The tricky part is assigning values to the Assets ; they could range from 100% of book value for 
Cash to 0% for Goodwill to percentages in between those for items such as Inventory, Accounts 
Receivable, and Net PP&E.  
Here’s an example analysis  for Steel Dynamics:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
74 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
This methodology seems reasonable , but there are a few problems with it:  
1) It’s difficult to determine the market values of everything . There are some rules of 
thumb , such as 100% for Cash and 0% for Goodwill, but significant research is required 
to value assets like PP&E or non -core real estate.  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
75 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
2) It significantly undervalue s healthy, growing companies . If a company is about to go 
bankrupt , it might have to sell its Assets and use the proceeds to repay its Liabilities, so  
a Liquidation Valuation can be reasonably accurate. But healthy companies tend to be 
worth far more than their Net Assets in a fire sale because of their growth potential  – 
and if you want to value the PP&E of a healthy company properly, you might as well 
build a DCF because you’ll need to project the PP&E’s future cash flows to do this.  
The Liquidation Valuation is best for distressed companies and has limited uses outside that.  
In those situations, it’s also useful for assessing the potential recoveries  to lenders (e.g., if one 
lender group might receive back 100% of their principal while another will receive only 50%).  
The Dividend Discount Model (DDM)  
The DDM is an alternative to the DCF analysis that is critical in some industries (commercial 
banks and insurance), useful in a few  (REITs , MLPs , and power/utility companies ), and useless in 
others (technology, healthcare, retail, etc.).  
Instead of valuing a company by projecting  its Unlevered Free Cash Flows and discounting them 
with WACC, you use the company’s Dividends  and Cost of Equity  instead.  
In a DDM, you project down to the company’s Net Income, link Dividends to Net Income or the 
company’s share count, and calculate the Terminal Value based on a P / E multiple . 
The idea  behind a DDM is sensible : if you buy shares in a company, you can benefit from the 
company’s Dividends  and its stock -price appreciation . 
Metrics such as Unlevered FCF, Levered FCF, and EBITDA  do not mean anything in terms of your 
real-life cash flow  because companies do not distrib ute any of those to shareholders.  
So, it’s logical to value a company by projecting and discounting its Dividends to Present Value 
rather than bothering with all these FCF metrics ; its discounted Terminal Value corresponds to 
the “stock -price appreciation” potential . 
Here’s an excerpt from a Dividend Discount Model for Steel Dynamics:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
76 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
While the DDM is a nice idea, there are a few problems with it in real life:  
1) It only works well for companies that issue consistent, recurring Dividends using most 
of their cash flows  – Otherwise, you’ll get inconsistent valuation results.  
 
2) It tends to produce lower valuations than the DCF  – For most companies, Dividends or 
Dividends + Stock Repurchases (if you count both in the analysis) are lower than 
distributable cash flow and metrics such as UFCF. And the Cost of Equity is normally >= 
WACC, so the PV of Dividends + the Terminal Value is also lower.  
The Dividend Discount Model is widely used only in industries like commercial banks and 
insurance in which Enterprise Value -based multiples do not work and the concept of “Free Cash 
Flow” doesn’t apply . 
It’s also fairly common for companies that issue consistent, predictable Dividends, such as real 
estate investment trusts (REITs) , master limited partnerships (MLPs) in oil & gas , and some 
power/utility companies.  
Outside of those, however, the traditional Unlevered DCF is  simpler and more effective.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
77 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Variations of Comparable Public Companies and Precedent Transactions  
One variation of Precedent Transactions is the M&A Premiums Analysis , in which you find a set 
of M&A deals and calculate the premium  each acquirer paid over each seller’s pre-deal share 
price and use these premiums to value your company.  
For example, if you’re valuing Steel Dynamics, you might gather a set of 20 -30 public 
industrial/manufacturing companies that have been acquired  over the past few years and 
calculate the premium each buyer paid . 
If a seller’s share price was $20.00 before the acquisition, and the buyer paid $25.00 per share 
for the company, that’s a 25% premium.  
You collect that data for all the transactions and then apply the median  figure  (or some other 
percentile) to your company’s current share price.  
If the median figure is 25%, and your company’s share price is currently $28.00, then your 
company is worth $28.00 * (1 + 25%)  = $35.00  according to this methodology.  
This method sounds simple, but a few points make it more complicated:  
• Selection Criteria:  You often use broader selection criteria than with Precedent 
Transactions because you can include only acquisitions of public companies . 
 
• Which Premium?  Often, rumors of an M&A deal break before the deal is announced , so 
the 1 -day premium might be deceptive. As a result, bankers use many variations: 
premiums to the 1 -week -prior or 1-month -prior share price or even premiums to the 
volume -weighted average price (VWAP) over a certain interval.  
 
• It Only Works for Public Compan ies: This methodology only works for standalone public 
companies that might be acquired  in full. It doesn’t apply to private companies or 
minority -stake acquisitions.  
Here’s an example analysis  for Jazz Pharmaceuticals : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
78 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Based on these figures, we might conclude that a 40-50% premium for Jazz would be 
reasonable if it wanted to sell.  
A variation of Public Comps is the Future Share Price Analysis . 
The idea with this one is similar to the Dividend Discount Model: if you buy a company’s stock, 
you can benefit from  its stock -price appreciation  and its Dividends . 
The difference is that rather than estimating the potential stock -price appreciation with the 
discounted Terminal Value, you apply a current multiple  to a future  financial metric, back into 
that future  share price, and discount it to Present Value.  
To project the Dividends, you need a setup similar to the one in a Levered DCF or Dividend 
Discount Model, where you link the Dividends to a per -share figure or the Net Income . 
To “project” the stock -price appreciation , you normally calculate the “Next Twelve Months” 
(NTM) multiples the company is currently trading at and apply them to its future , projected 
metrics to estimate its future Equity Value or Enterprise Value.  
For example, if the company’s NTM TEV / EBITDA multiple is 10x, and its projected EBITDA over 
the next 12 months is $150 million, its Current Enterprise Value is $1.5 billion.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
79 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In the Future Share Price Analysis, you apply this 10x multipl e to the company’s projected 
EBITDA 1, 2, 3, or even 4 years into the future.  
So, if the company’s NTM EBITDA in 12 months  (i.e., the projected EBITDA for Month s 13 – 24) 
is $180 million, then its Future  Enterprise Value is $180 million * 10x = $1.8 billio n. 
You then subtract the projected Net Debt on this future date and divide by the projected share 
count to estimate its Implied Future Share Price . And then you discount that Future Share Price 
to Present Value based on the Cost of Equity.  
Here’s a sample analysis for Steel Dynamics:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
80 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We can then use this output to create graphs that compare the company’s current share price 
to the PV of its possible future share prices  + cumulative Dividends : 
 
The conclusion here is that Steel Dynamics is almost certainly overvalued  because its current 
share price is above all the implied share price s in this analysis.  
The Future Share Price methodology may seem reasonable, but we recommend against it 
because it adds little over the standard Public Comps . 
It does let you consider future Dividends  and variations  of the standard multiples, but you could 
easily use those variations directly within the Public Comps  as well.  
The FSP analysis could be useful if the company is considering a capital structure change, such 
as a Leveraged Recapitalization, and it wants to assess the valuation impact of this change.  
Net Operating Loss (NOL) Valuation  
When a company records a Net Operating Loss (NOL) balance within its Deferred Tax Asset, it 
doesn’t necessarily expect that it will be able to realize the full tax savings represented by that 
number.  
For example, maybe the company has $1,000 in NOLs and a 25% tax rate, so it records $ 250 of 
NOLs within the DTA.  
These NOLs expire in Year 3, and the company expects to earn Pre-Tax Income of $ 200 per year 
in Years 1 – 3. 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
81 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Therefore, $1,000 – $200 * 3 = $400 of this NOL balance could expire unused.  
If the company expects that, it records within the DTA a Valuation Allowance , which is a 
contra -asset that reduces the entire DTA  (in this case, it would be $400 * 25% = $100).  
But you can also estimate the value of the NOLs and this Valuation Allowance yourself by 
forecasting the usage and crea tion of NOLs and their future tax savings:  
 
You normally use WACC to discount these tax savings to their Present Value, but people 
sometimes argue for the Cost of Equity  since the NOLs are “non -operational.”  
In most cases, valuing the NOL s separately does not make a huge difference because most 
companies tend to have small balance s that they use up quickly.  
NOL valuation tends to matter far more in M&A deals  because there may be restrictions on the 
amount of the Seller’s NOLs the Buyer can use. For example, Section 382 in the U.S. tax code 
limits the annual usage of the Seller’s NOL to a small percentage of the Equity Purchase Price.  
In the context of M&A, the true value of the NOLs could be much lower if the Seller has a large 
balance or a significant portion that expires soon.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
82 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Continuing with the example above, if a potential Buyer pays $2 billion for this company, its 
NOLs might be worth less than $100 million, depending on current interest rates and the NOL 
expiration date:  
 
Sum -of-the-Parts (SOTP) Valuation  
This methodology is easily the most practical of all the ones in this section, though it does have 
some drawbacks.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
83 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
With  a Sum -of-the-Parts  Valuation , you value each division of a company separately, add up 
the Implied Enterprise Value s for all the division s, and then back into the Implied Equity Value 
and Implied Share Price for the entire company . 
Sum  of the Parts works best for companies with very  different division s, such as conglomerates 
that operate across many industries.  
It makes sense for these companies because the divisions have different risk/potential return 
profiles , and they would trade at different multiples as independent entities.  
It’s also useful when you’re analyzing a potential divestiture  or spin -off (i.e., the company sells 
one division or takes a division public as a separate entity) . 
In this case, the SOTP valuation can tell you whether it’s worthwhile for the parent company to 
pursue the deal.  
Here’s an example SOTP valuation for LG Chem, a conglomerate -type company  based in South 
Korea:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
84 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This company seems undervalued  because its “Energy Solutions” division, which produces 
electronic vehicle (EV) and lithium -ion bat teries, should be valued at a very high EBITDA 
multiple based on the comparable companies.  
Sum of the Parts is useful because it is the most accurate way to analyze companies with very 
different divisions; a high -growth segment should be  worth more than a low -growth one.  
The main downsides to Sum of the Parts are:  
1) It Takes A LOT More Time and Effort  to Use  – If the company has 10 divisions, you need 
to find 10 different sets of Public Comps and possibly find 10 sets of Precedent 
Transactions and build 10 DCF analyses as well.  
 
2) You May Not Have Enough Information to Use It – For example, many companies 
disclose revenue by segment  but not operating income, Working Capital, or CapEx by 
segment. It’s tough to build a separate DCF for each division without this information.  
 
All companies also have corporate overhead expenses  that are not allocated  to one 
specific division.  You need to deduct  their value in the SOTP valuation , but not all 
companies make this information easy to find.  
Leveraged Buyout  (LBO)  Valuation  
This one is a whole separate topic (see the LBO lessons/sections/guides), but you can also value 
a company by assuming that a pri vate equity firm buys it, runs it for several years, sells it in the 
future , and targets a specific IRR or multiple with the investment.  
For example, let’s say that a private equity firm plans to acquire a company, hold it, and sell it in 
5 years.  
They believe they can sell it for a  TEV / EBITDA multiple between 12 x and  15x, and they want to 
use 50% Debt and 50% E quity to purchase it. They are targeting a 20% IRR.  
You could set up the LBO model and then use the “Goal Seek” function in Excel to deter mine 
the maximum purchase price  that would generate that 20% IRR.  
That price depend s on the exit multiple, so you might show the maximum purchase price 
required for a 20% IRR at exit multiples ranging from 12 x to 15x.  
This methodology tends to be more of a “sanity check” or “initial screen” – for example, a 
private equity firm might run this analysis to decide if a potential deal makes sense before 
investigating it in detail.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
85 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the maximum amount the PE firm can pay to earn  a 20% IRR is $1 billion, but the company’s 
Current Enterprise Value is $1.5 billion, the deal will not work.  
But if the company’s Current Enterprise Value is only $800 million, the deal might work.  
Industry -Specific Valuation  
This topic  is beyond the scope of this guide, so take a look at the industry -specific guides and 
courses on this site for the full treatment.  
In short, there are also industry -specific valuation methodologies in sectors such as commercial 
banking, insurance, real estate investment trusts (REITs), and oil & gas.  
But these methodologies aren’t “new”: they’re primarily variations of the Liquidation Valuation, 
DCF, or DDM.  
For example, the Net Asset Value (NAV) Model  for oil & gas is a DCF with no Terminal Value.  
After an initial exploration/growth period, you assume that the company stops exploring for 
more oil and gas and produces as much as possible until it is no longer economically feasible to 
do so with its current Reserves.  
As a result, its Free Cash Flow eventually drop s to $0 . 
You discoun t and sum up all the cash flows, as in any DCF, but you skip the Terminal Value 
because it’s $0 here.  
And you value banks and insurance firms with the Dividend Discount Model (DDM) , but it’s set 
up differently and is linked to these firms’ regulatory capit al requirements  (essentially, these 
mean that companies must maintain a minimum amount of Common Shareholders’ Equity).  
For life insurance, the embedded  value  methodology is a far-in-the-future DCF analysis where a 
company’s Implied Value is linked  to its Balance Sheet (Assets minus Liabilities) plus the Present 
Value of Future Cash Profits from its current policies.  
Life insurance policies can last for 20 -30 years, so you might create projections for decades into 
the future with this one.  
For most other industries, the standard metrics, multiples, and methodologies described in this 
guide apply.  
Return to Top . 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
86 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule #1 3: Leases in Valuation and DCF Analysis  [OPTIONAL]  
In 2019, the rules for lease accounting  changed, and companies began recording Operating 
Leases on their Balance Sheets.  
This change caused high achievers and obsessive -compulsive workaholics everywhere to freak 
out and assume that valuation had transformed overnight.  
But in reality, this accou nting change means very little in terms of the DCF and valuation.  
Yes, you could  count Operating Leases  as a “form of capital” in the analysis, but you do NOT 
need to do this, and even if you do, very little changes.  
A DCF is based on the company’s cash inflows and cash outflows , and regardless of how a 
lease is recorded for accounting purposes, paying for a lease  still represents a cash outflow . 
You c an call it a Finance Lease, an Operating Lease, or a Pink Unicorn Lease, but the impact  is 
always the same: paying for a lease reduces the company’s cash flow.  
The Interest vs. Depreciation split under IFRS (and the same split for Finance Leases under U.S.  
GAAP) means nothing because no matter h ow the Lease Expense is recorded , it still represents 
a cash outflow . 
And as you learned in the Accounting guide, for a large portfolio of leases  with varied start and 
end dates , the Lease Interest + Lease Depreciation is fairly close to the Rental Expense.  
If you’re reading this section, these arguments probably won’t convince you, so we’ll walk 
through a version of the Steel Dynamics analysis that counts Leases as “capital” to demonstrate 
how pointless it is.  
Here’s a summary of the required changes:  
• Public Co mps  – Include Operating Leases in Enterprise Value for each company (and 
make sure Finance Leases are there as well); change EBITDA to EBITDAR for U.S. -based 
companies.  IFRS -based companies should already have Operating Leases in Enterprise 
Value, and EBITDA should already match Enterprise Value.  
 
• WACC  – Include Leases when un -levering and re -levering Beta , find the company’s “Pre -
Tax Cost of Leases” (the discount rate they use to calculate the Lease Liabilities in the 
filings), and include Leases as a term in the WACC formula.  
 
• Unlevered Free Cash Flow  – Add back the Depreciation element of the Finance Lease 
expense (we should do this even in a standard DCF but usually ignore it because it’s so 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
87 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
small)  and add back the full Operating Lease Expense (Rent under U.S. GAAP; under 
IFRS, just the Operating Lease Depreciation). And make sure the D&A add -back is only 
for non-lease D&A . Finally, deduct the Change in the Present Value of Lease Liabilities  
each year to represent the cash cost of signing new, additional leases beyond the 
company’s curren t portfolio.  
 
• Terminal Value  and Implied Share Price  – You should use TEV Incl uding Operating 
Leases / EBITDAR for U.S. companies , and you may change the Terminal FCF Growth 
Rate slightly; in the bridge, subtract  Operating Leases (and still subtract Finance Leases).  
 
• Precedent Transactions  – In theory, you should change all the transactions to use 
Purchase Enterprise Value Incl uding Operating Lea ses / EBITDAR; in practice, you won’t 
be able to find this data for many older deals.  
 
• Other Changes  – You must be very precise  with the slightly different Enterprise Value 
calculations and multiples and indicate the Operating Lease treatment.  
Let’s take a look at these changes in Excel, starting with the Public Comps:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
88 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
To calculate EBITDAR, we add the Operating Lease Expense (“Rent”) to each company’s EBITDA.  
The “Leases” figures include both Operating and Finance Leases, so we’ve removed the Finance 
Leases from Debt (where possible ). 
Moving onto the WACC calculations , here’s the first part with Unlevered Beta:  
 
When re -levering Beta and calculating WACC, we also include similar terms for the Leases:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
89 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Counting Operating Leases as a form of capital tends to reduce  WACC , assuming the company 
currently has a reasonable Debt / Equity ratio . 
Since the Cost of Leases is below the Cost of Equity and closer to the Cost of Debt, counting 
Leases like this effectively gives the company additional lower -cost capital.  
In this example, WACC for Steel Dynamics falls from 7.85% to 7.69%.  
WACC does not always  decrease , just like WACC does not always decrease when companies use 
more Debt  – because it depends on  the company’s existing capital structure.  
For example, if one company’s (Debt + Preferred Stock + Leases) / Total Capital is very high, 
counting Leases as capital at that level  might cause the Cost of Equity to increase by so much 
that WACC increases  – even though Leases are still cheaper than Equity.  
Moving on, we need to make a few adjustments in the Unlevered FCF calculations because 
we’re counting Operating Leases within WACC and in the TEV bridge:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
90 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
In most of the projected years, Unlevered FCF increases  because we exclude  the full Lease 
Expense in EBIT and UFCF.  
However, it could decrease  in a later year , such as the final projected year , if you assume a full 
replacement of the existing lease portfolio,  resulting in a much larger deduction  for the Change 
in the Operating Lease Liability  in that year.  
Calculating the Terminal Value and Implied Share Price is still fairly standard, but it’s more 
appropriate to use TEV Incl uding Operating Leases / EBITDAR under U.S. GAAP.  
You can still use the  Multiples Method and the Perpetuity Growth Method, and now you must 
deduct existing Operating Leases in the bridge:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
91 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The result  is that in the baseline scenario, Steel Dynamics looks overvalued by 9.7% rather than 
9.0%, as it was before.  
Even if you tweak the assumptions, such as the “full lease portfolio replacement” that reduces 
the final -year UFCF and the Terminal Value, it’s at most  a 5% difference in the valuation . 
A discrepancy of 5% or less in the valuation output is so small that it’s not even worth thinking 
about . 
With the Precedent Transactions, in theory, you should convert EBITDA to EBITDAR for each 
acquired company and include Operating Leases in the Purchase Enterprise Value s, but it will 
be almost impossible to do this for pre-2019 transactions.  
We made no changes to the original set for Steel Dynamics, so we are not listing it here.  
Final ly, you must be careful when  labeling  each multiple and methodology because some 
Enterprise Value calculations include Operating Leases  and others do not:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
92 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
All this additional work does not change our conclusions: Steel Dynamics still looks modestly 
overvalued . 
• The company’s implied share price  decrease s slightly ( $58.21  vs. $58.6 5). 
 
• WACC  decreases slightly (7.69% vs. 7.85%) because Equity takes up a smaller 
percentage of the capital structure when we count Leases as capital.  
 
• Unlevered Free Cash Flow  increases in most years because we exclude the full Lease 
Expense , but the Change in the Op. Lease Liability  deduction may sometimes cause it to 
decrease (as it does in the final projected year her e, affecting the Terminal Value ). 
 
• Terminal Value  could be higher or lower depending on the assumptions, and in the TEV 
bridge , we now deduct the current Operating Lease  Liability . 
Many of these changes offset each other, so the implied share price is usually “about the same” 
(i.e., a difference in the range of +/ - 1-5%).  
Return to Top . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
93 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule #1 4: Differences for IFRS -Based Companies [OPTIONAL]  
Now that we’ve finished one pointless exercise, it’s time to go through another  one : how 
valuation differs for non -U.S.-based companies . 
The short answer is:  
1) There are a few small differences in UFCF and valuation multiples because of the 
Operating Lease accounting differences.  
 
2) But most of the differences have nothing to do with IFRS vs. U.S. GAAP and more to do 
with the information the company discloses and the assumptions that differ for each 
country, such as the Risk -Free Rate.  
Here’s a summary, and then we’ll go through screenshots of a DCF and valuation for a similar 
steel manufacturing company in China (Xiwang Special Steel):  
• Business Model and Financial M odel Differences:  There’s less information available 
(e.g., nothing on utilization rates or maintenance vs. growth CapEx), so we built a much 
simpler model based on steel shipments and the average steel price per ton.  
 
• Unlevered Free Cash Flow:  We want to deduct the full Lease Expense, so starting with 
EBIT, we must subtract the Interest element s of both Finance and Operating Leases. And 
the D&A add -back should include only D&A on owned assets.  
 
• Terminal Value and Sensitivities:  These all match the traditional analysis, but you might 
use higher Terminal FCF Growth Rates in emerging and frontier markets that are 
expected to grow at a faster pace for the next few decades.  
 
• Public Comps:  The screening criteria are the same, but since EBITDA excludes the full 
Finance Lease and Operating Lease expense s under IFRS, you add both the Operating 
and Finance Leases to Enterprise Value.  
 
• Discount Rate (WACC):  The numbers for the Risk-Free Rate, Equity Risk Premium, Cost 
of Debt, and so on, will differ. They’ll be higher in emerging markets and the same or 
lower in other developed markets. That said, the overall Discount Rate won’t necessarily 
be higher or lower, as it depends heavily on Beta  within the Cost o f Equity.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
94 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Precedent Transactions and Valuation Summary:  Once again, you’ll run into issues if 
your set includes pre-2019  transactions . With the valuation summary, be careful to use 
the proper labels for denoting versions of TEV that include or exclude Ope rating Leases.  
Let’s start with the business model differences:  
 
CapEx and OpEx are simple per -shipment figures, and COGS remains a simple percentage of 
revenue.  
There are some small differences in the UFCF calculation due to IFRS vs. U.S. GAAP treatment of 
Operating Leases:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
95 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Terminal Value calculations are similar, except for the slightly different assumptions:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
96 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Public Comps are nearly the same as the set for Steel Dynamics, but with different 
companies and Operating Leases added to Enterprise Value.  
We don’t use EBITDAR under IFRS because it’s unnecessary; EBITDA already  adds back or 
excludes the full Lease Expense.  
The Discount Rate calculation is where things start to get weird:  
 
We also get some strange results when re -levering B eta to calculate the Cost of Equity via 
different methods . The result is a wide range  and more uncertainty over WACC:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
97 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
So, why is WACC for Xiwang lower  than WACC for Steel Dynamics even though Xiwang has a 
capital structure with 82% Debt in a country where the government could burn down all the 
company’s factories on a whim?  
One explanation might be that steel manufacturing companies in China are less risky  than the 
market as a whole because of heavy state involvement and sales primarily within China.  
It could also be a calculation issue with the Levered Beta figures; sources like Bloomberg, 
Capital IQ, and FactSet are “spotty” with companies in other countries.  
Finally, maybe our screen is incorrect, so we might need to revisit the Public Comps.  
The Precedent Transactions are so similar that we’re not going to highlight them h ere. It’s 
extremely difficult to find English -language information for deals in China, which limited the 
deals we could use.  
Here’s the valuation summary:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
98 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The company’s share price at the time of this analysis was ¥0.33, so it’s undervalued, right?  
On the surface, yes, but this claim ignores the very wide ranges for the Cost of Equity and the 
other quirks with WACC and the rest of this analysis.  
You could argue that we should adjust WACC upward by adding a “Country Risk Premium” and 
that such an adjustment would greatly reduce the implied values from the DCF.  
So, we’d say this company looks “somewhat undervalued,” but since the uncertainty is so high,  
it’s more ambiguous than it would be in a developed market . 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #1 5: Summary and Trade -Offs of Different Methodologies [OPTIONAL]  
We’ve covered a lot in this guide, so this last section  provides a summary  of the trade -offs of 
different methodologies:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
99 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Advantages and Disadvantages of the Main Valuation Methodologies:  
Methodology 
Name:  Public Comps  Precedent Transactions  Discounted Cash Flow 
Analysis  
Advantages:  • Based on real market data . 
 
• Less  dependent on future 
assumptions.  
 
• Quick  to calculate and easy 
to understand  and explain.  • Based on what real 
companies have paid  for 
other companies , not 
their hypothetical values.  
 
• May show industry 
trends  more effectively 
than Public C omps.  • Less subject to current 
market conditions  and 
trends.  
 
• Most “correct” 
methodology according 
to finance theory . 
 
• Better reflects company -
specific  factors  and 
different possible 
outcomes . 
Disadvantages:  • There m ay not be truly 
comparable  companies . 
 
• Less accurate for thinly 
traded stocks and volatile  
companies . 
 
• May undervalue  
companies’ long -term 
potential.  
 
• The market might be 
wrong ! • Data  can be limited and 
misleading.  
 
• There may not be truly 
comparable  transactions . 
 
• Multiples don’t capture 
all the aspects  of deal s. 
 
• Specific market 
conditions  can greatly 
affect the output.  • Highly dependent on far-
in-the-future  
assumptions . 
 
• Bankers are notoriously 
bad at making plausible 
assumptions.  
 
• Widespread 
disagreement  about how 
to calculate figures like 
the Cost of Equity and 
WACC.  
 
For the more “exotic” methodologies:  
• Liquidation Valuation  – It's difficult to determine the market values of everything on the 
Balance Sheet, and it undervalues healthy,  growing companies; it’s more appropriate for 
distressed companies.  
 
• Dividend Discount Model  – It’s helpful for co mpanies that issue predictable , recurring 
Dividends and for industries in which Free Cash Flow is meaningless, but it’s much less 
useful than the Unlevered DCF in other cases.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
100 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• M&A Premiums Analysis  – It helps assess  what an a cquirer might have to pay for an 
entire public company, but it' s not useful for valuing private companies or non -100% 
acquisitions.  
 
• Future Share Price Analysis  – It may be useful if the company is considering a capital 
structure change and wants to evaluate its potential valuation impact, but it adds little 
over the Public Comps in most cases.  
 
• Sum  of the Parts  – It’s u seful for valuing conglomerates and companies with very 
different divisions, but it takes a lot more time and effort  to use , and you may have to 
use guesswork to fill in required data that the company does not disclose.  
 
• Leveraged Buyout Valuation  – It's helpful for PE firms thinking about the maximum 
amount they could pay for a company to achieve a certain IRR, but it's  more of an initial 
screening tool than a strict valuation methodology.  
Comparing the Expected Values from Different Methodologies  
Since all the methodologies depend on your assumptions, it’s difficult to make universal 
statements  about which one  produces the “highest” or “lowest” values.  
But we can say the following:  
• Precedent Transactions vs. Public Comps:  Transactions tend  to produce higher Implied 
Values due to the control premium . But this rule doesn’t always work , especially if 
market condi tions have changed recently  and the Transactions span a 5 -10-year period.  
 
• M&A Premiums Analysis vs. Public Comps:  Like the Precedent Transactions, the M&A 
Premiums Analysis tends to produce higher Implied V alues because of the control 
premium . Also, by definition, the premiums must be positive percentages, so they can 
never  indicate that a company is undervalued . 
 
• Discounted Cash Flow  Analysis : This one often produces the most variable  output since 
it’s the most dependent on long -term assumptio ns. 
 
• Dividend Discount Model:  This methodology tends to produce lower values  than the 
traditional Unlevered DCF because the Cost of Equity is greater than or equal to WACC, 
and most companies’ Dividends or Dividends + Stock Repurchases are less than their 
distributable cash flow.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
101 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• Liquidation Valuation:  This one produce s the lowes t Implied V alues for healthy 
companies because almost any healthy, growing company is worth far more than the 
Net Assets on its Balance Sheet.  
 
• Sum  of the Parts:  If a company is worth more in “parts ,” then this one will produce 
higher Implied V alues than a valuation with one DCF and one set of public comps . 
 
• LBO Valuation : This one tends to produce values on the lower end of the range because 
it tells you the maximum price  a PE firm could  pay to achieve a minimum IRR. Unlike the 
other methodologies, it sets a “ceiling” on valuation.  
There are so many exceptions to these rules that we suggest avoiding  this topic in interviews.  
It’s best to turn the conversation back to the trade -offs of the different methodologies rather 
than claiming  that one approach will always produce the highest or lowest values.  
Besides comparing  different methodologies, interview questions about specific assumptions 
and drivers within a DCF  are also common.  
For example:  
• Will the Cost of Equity be higher for a $500 million or $5 billion company?  
 
• Will 10% vs. 9% revenue growth or a 10% vs. 9% Discount Rate make a greater impact 
on the DCF?  
 
• How does a company’s WACC change as it uses more Debt?  
Here’s  a summary:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
102 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
* Assumes the same capital structure percentages – if the capital structure changes, this one 
could go either way.  
** If the company already has high leverage or a huge lease portfolio representing  a high 
percentage of its capital structure, the opposite may happen.  
*** Assumes the company has Debt. If it does not, the tax rate won’t affect anything because 
there will be no tax savings from the interest paid on Debt. You don’t multiply (1 – Tax Rate) by 
any other terms in the WACC formula.  
Overall Impact and Key Drivers  
The Discount Rate  and Terminal Value  make the biggest impact on the DCF output.  
That’s because the Discount Rate affects everything  and because the PV of the Terminal Value 
often represents over 50% of the company’s Implied Enterprise Value.  
Changes in revenue growth, operating margins, and CapEx also make a difference , but the 
changes must be much  larger to make the same impact as a fairly small change to the Discount 
Rate or Terminal Value assumptions . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
103 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, increasing the Discount Rate from 8% to 9% will make a far bigger impact  than 
increasing the revenue growth rate from 8% to 9%  or increasing the operating margin from 8% 
to 9%.  
Since the Terminal Value contributes so much to the company’s total value, small changes to 
the Terminal FCF Growth Rate or Terminal Multiple can  also greatly affect the output.  
Company Size and Geography  
Smaller companies tend to be riskier  – they have higher growth potential but also a higher 
chance of failing.  
As a result, they tend to have a higher Cost  of Equity , Cos t of Debt, and WACC than larger 
companies.  
Similarly, companies in emerging markets also tend to be riskier , with higher growth potential 
but also a higher risk of failure because of geopolitical factors.  
So, the Cost of Equity, Cost of Debt, and WACC will be higher, and the DCF will tend to produce 
lower values.  
And before you say it:  Yes, in the section of this guide with a Chinese company, the opposite 
happened, and WACC turned out to be lower . But that was a special case due to the company’s 
unusual capital structure (80% Debt) and the strange Beta figures for the Public Comps.  
Debt and Equity Levels  
Be very careful  with these questions because the impact of Debt is not so straightforward.  
Recall the examples in the Equity Value / Enterprise Value  guide : 
 
As a company uses more Debt, its Cost of Debt and Cost of Equity always  increase.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
104 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
More Debt makes the company riskier for everyone and increases the chance of bankruptcy, 
which is bad for all investors.  
The tricky part is that WACC initially decreases when a company goes from no Debt or 
minimal Debt to some Debt,  but then it starts increasing.  
Debt is cheaper than Equity, but past a certain point, the additional risk of Debt starts to 
outweigh its cost benefits:  
 
But if you don’t know where a company currently is in the “WACC curve,” you can’t say  
whether additional Debt will increase or reduce WACC.  
Counting Operating Leases as Debt  
As discussed in the Lease section of this guide , counting Operating Leases (together with 
Finance Leases) as a form of capit al generally reduces WACC  because Leases are, effectively, 
another Debt -like item . 
Just like the interest expense on Debt is tax -deductible, so too is the entire Lease Expense.  
The Cost of Leases is less than the Cost of Equity, so adding Leases to the WAC C calculation 
reduces the overall cost for the company.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
105 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
However, this result may not hold for highly leveraged companies or ones with massive lease 
portfolios . 
The overall effect on the DCF is uncertain because it depends heavily on the change in Terminal 
Value and how you account for the cash cost of new  leases, but the output is usually similar  (+/- 
1-5%).  
Risk-Free Rate  
A higher Risk -Free Rate (i.e., if government bonds in the country start offering higher yields ) 
increases the Cost of Equity and Cost of Debt, and, therefore, WACC.  
When government bonds start offering higher yields , investors also start demanding higher 
yields on corporate bonds, and stock -market investors start seeking higher returns as well.  
With a higher Risk -Free Rate, all investors  have better options elsewhere . 
As a result, a company’s implied value from a DCF will decline.  
Equity Risk Premium  
A high er Equity Risk Premium increase s the Cost of Equity and WACC because the stock market 
is expected to return a higher percentage above  the Risk-Free Rate.  
It won’t affect the Cost of Debt because Debt investors earn relatively fixed interest on their 
investments; stock -market performance is irrelevant to them.  
So, if the ERP increases, the company’s Implied Value in a DCF decreases; if it decreases, the 
comp any’s Implied Value increases.  
Beta  
This one works the same way as the ERP above: a higher Beta increases the Cost of Equity and 
WACC and reduces a company’s Implied Value, and a lower Beta does the opposite.  
Just like the ERP, it does not affect the Cost of Debt.  
A higher Beta means more stock -price volatility . If a company’s Beta is 1.00, investors will 
expect this company’s stock price to increase by 10% when the market goes up by 10%.  
But if its Beta is now 1.10, investors will expect this company’ s stock price to increase by 11% 
when the market goes up by 10%.  
Since investors’ expectations increase, the company’s Implied Value to them  decreases.  
Tax Rate  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
106 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Assuming that the company has Debt, a higher tax rate reduces the Cost of Debt because it 
increases the tax benefits . 
Think about a simple example: if the company’s YTM  is 10%, the After -Tax Cost of Debt is 10% * 
(1 – 25%) = 7.5% at a 25% tax rate, but 10% * (1 – 50%) = 5 .0% at a 50% tax rate.  
But a higher tax rate also reduce s the Cost of Equity  because you use that same tax rate when 
re-levering Beta: Re -Levered Beta = Unlevered Beta * (1 + Debt / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate)).  
Since a higher tax rate makes Debt relatively cheaper, it also ma kes additional Debt less risky 
for the Equity investors.  
So, WACC decreases  with a higher tax rate, assuming the company has Debt.  If the company 
does not have Debt, the tax rate will not affect WACC . 
However, t he company’s Implied Value from a DCF usually decreases  because a higher tax rate 
also reduces the company’s Free Cash Flow.  
That FCF reduction tends to make a bigger impact t han these changes to the Discount Rate, 
especially since lower FCF also means a lower Terminal Value.  
Other Changes and Factors  
We haven’t covered every possible factor here, but if you understand these concepts, you can 
answer almost any question about a DCF and the Discount Rate.  
For example, if the company starts using additional Equity, that’s the same as using less Debt , 
so all the effects of less Debt would apply.  
Additional Preferred Stock is similar to additional Debt, but there’s no tax benefit, which tends 
to make Preferred Stock more expensive than Debt and less expensive than Equity.  
So, the Cost of Equity will increase, and WACC will decrease initially and then start increasing  
(but the inflection point will be at an earlier point on the x -axis).  
Return to Top . 
 
 
 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
107 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
Interview questions about valuation are extremely common, but we’ve already covered many 
of them in the Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and Valuation M ultiples  guide . 
So, we will focus on the DCF analysis and methodologies like Public Comps and Precedent 
Transactions in this section.  
Interviews have evolved to the point where simple questions with easily  memorized answers 
(e.g., “What are the 3 valuation methodologies?”) are no longer  common.  
Instead, interviewers are more likely to test your conceptual understanding  by asking you to 
walk through analyses, explain the trade -offs, and apply the methodologies to deals.  
 
The Purpose of Valuation  
These questions are quite high -level, but many candidates don’t understand the point  of 
valuation.  
You can’t answer the more detailed questions without knowing that, so don’t dismiss this 
category  as “too basic” – even if you have significant work experience.  
 
1. What’s the point of valuation? WHY do you value a company?  
You value a company to determine its Implied Value  according to your views . 
If this Implied Value is very different from the company’s Current Value, you might be able to 
invest in the company and make money if its value changes.  
If you are advising a clie nt company, you might value it to tell management the price that it 
might receive if the company sell s, which is often different from its Current Value.  
 
2. But p ublic companie s already have Market Caps and Share P rices. Why bother valuing 
them?  
Because a company’s Mark et Cap and Share Price reflect its Current Value  according to “the 
market  as a whole ” – but the market might be wrong!  
You value companies to see if the market’s views are correct or incorrect.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
108 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
3. What are the advantages and disadvantages of the 3 main valuation methodologies?  
Public Comps  are useful because they ’re based  on real market data, are quick to calculate and 
explain, and do not depend on far-in-the-future assumptions.  
However, there may not be truly  comparable companies, the analysis will be less accurate for 
volatile or thinly traded companies, and it may undervalue companies’ long -term potential.  
Precedent Transactions  are useful because they ’re based  on the real prices  that companies 
have paid for other companies, and they may better reflect industr y trends than Public Comps.  
However, the data is often spotty and misleading, there may not be truly comparable 
transactions, and specific deal terms and market conditions might distort the multiples.  
DCF Analysis  is the most “correct” methodology according to finance theory, it’s less subject to 
market fluctuations, and it better re flects company -specifi c factors and long -term trends.  
However, it’s also very dependent on far -in-the-future assumptions, and there’s disagreement 
over the proper calculation s for key figures like the Cost of Equity and WACC.  
 
4. Which of the 3 main methodologies will produce the highest Implied V alues?  
This is a trick question because almost any methodology could  produce the highest Implied 
Values depending on the industry, time period , and assumptions.  
Precedent Transactions often produce higher Implied Values than the Public Comps because of 
the control premium  – the extra amount that acquirers must pay to acquire sellers.  
But it’s tough to say how a DCF compares because it’s far more dependent on your 
assumptions.  
The safest answer is: “A DCF tends to produce the most variable output  since it’s so dependent 
on your assumptions , and Precedent Transactions tend to produce higher values than  the 
Public Comps because of the control premium.”  
 
5. When is a DCF more useful than Public Comps or Precedent Transactions?  
You should pretty much always build a DCF since it is valuation – the other metho dologies are 
supplemental.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
109 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But it’s especially useful when the company you’re valuing is mature and has stable, predictable 
cash flows or when you lack good Public Comps and Precedent Transactions.  
 
6. When are Public Comps or Precedent Transactions more useful than the DCF?  
If the company you’re valuing is early -stage  and you cannot estimate its future cash flows , or if 
the company has no path to positive cash flow s, you must  rely on the  other methodologies.  
These other methodologies can also be more useful when you run into problems in the DCF, 
such as the inabilit y to estimate the Discount Rate . 
 
7. Which  one should be worth more: a $500 mil lion EBITDA healthcare company or a $500 
million EBITDA industrials company?  
Assume the growth rates  and margins  are the same.  
In all likelihood, the healthcare company will be worth more because healthcare is a less asset -
intensive industry . That means the company’s CapEx and Working Capital requirements will be 
lower, and its Free Cash Flow  will be higher  (i.e., closer to EBITDA) . 
Healthcare, at least in some sectors, also tends to be more of a “growth industry” than 
industrials.  
The Discount Rate might also be higher for the healthcare company, but the lower asset 
intensity and higher expected growth rates would  likely make up for that.  
However, this answer is an extreme  generalization, so you need more information to  give a 
detai led answer . 
 
8. How do you value an apple tree ? 
The same way you value a company: comparable  apple trees and a DCF. You’d look at what 
similar apple trees have sold for  and calculate the expected future cash flows from this tree. 
You would then discount the se cash flows  to Present Value , discount the Terminal Value  to PV , 
and add everything to determine the apple tree’s Implied Value.  
The Discount Rate would be based  on your opportunity cost  – what you might be able to earn 
each year by investing in other, similar apple trees.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
110 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
9. People say  that  the DCF is intrinsic valuation, while Public Comps and Prece dent 
Transactions are relative valuation . Is that correct?  
No, not exactly . The DCF is based  on the company’s expected future cash flows, so in that 
sense , it is “intrinsic valuation.”  
But the Discount Rate  used in the DCF is usually linked to peer companies (market data), and if 
you use the Multiples Method to calculate Terminal Value, the multiples are also linked  to peer 
companies.  
The DCF depends  less on the market than the other methodologies , but there is still some  
dependency.  
It’s more accurate to say that the DCF depends more on your views of the company’s long -term 
prospects and less on market data than the other methodologies.  
Return to Top . 
 
DCF Analysis  – Walking Through and Explaining It  
Questions about how to set up a DCF are the most common ones in interviews. Even if you 
don’t understand everything about the analysis, you must  be able to walk through it.  
 
1. Why do you build a DCF analysis to value a company?  
You build a DCF analysis because a company  is worth the Present Value of its expected future 
cash flows:  
Company Value  = Cash Flow / (Discount Rate – Cash Flow Growth Rate) , where Cash Flow 
Growth Rate < Discount Rate  
But you can’t just use that single formula because  a company’s Cash Flow Growth Rate  and 
Discount Rate  change over time.  
So, in a Discounted Cash Flow analysis, you divide  the valuation into two periods: one where 
those assumptions change (the explicit forecast period ) and one where they stay the same (the 
Terminal Period ). 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
111 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You then project the company’s cash flows in both periods and discount them to their Present 
Value s based on the appropriate Discount Rate(s).  
Then, you compare this sum – the company’s Implied Value – to the company’s Current Value 
or “Asking Price” to see if it’s valued appropriately.  
 
2. Walk me through a DCF analysis.  
A DCF values a company based on the Present Value of its Cash Flows in the explicit forecast 
period plus the Prese nt Value of its Terminal Value.  
You start by projecting the company’s Free Cash Flows over the next 5 -10 years by making 
assumptions for revenue growth, margins, Working Capital, and CapEx.  
Then, you discount the cash flows  using the Discount Rate, usually th e Weighted Average Cost 
of Capital,  and sum up everything.  
Next, you estimate the company’s Terminal Value using the Multiples Meth od or the Gordon 
Growth Method; it represents the company’s value after  those first 5 -10 years into perpetuity.  
You then discount the Terminal Value to Present Value using the Discount Rate  and add it to 
the sum of the company’s discounted cash flows.  
Finally, you compare this  Implied Value  to the company’s Current Value, usually its Enterprise 
Value, and you’ll often calculate the company’s Implied Share Price so you can compare it to 
the Current Share Price . 
 
3. How do you move from Revenue to Free Cash Flow  in a DCF ? 
First, confirm  that the interviewer is asking for Unlevered  Free Cash Flow ( AKA Free Cash Flow 
to Firm). If so:  
Subtract COGS and Operating Expenses from Revenue to get Operating Income (EBIT) . 
Then, m ultiply  Operating Income by (1 – Tax Rate), add back Depreciation & Amortization, and 
factor i n the Change in Working Capital.  
If the company spends  extra cash as it grows, the Change in Working Capital will be negative; if 
it generates  extra cash flow due to  its growth, it will be positive.  
Finally, subtract Capital Expenditures to calculate Unlevered Free Cash Flow.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
112 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Levered Free Cash Flow ( Free Cash Flow to Equity ) is similar, but you subtract the Net Interest 
Expense before  multiplying by (1 – Tax Rate) , and you also factor in changes in Debt principal.  
 
4. What does the Discount Rate mean?  
The Discount Rate represents the opportunity cost  for the investor s – what they could earn by 
investing in other, similar companies in this industry.  
A higher  Discount Rate means higher risk and potential returns ; a lower  Discount Rate means 
lower risk and potential returns . 
A higher  Discount Rate makes a company less valuable  because it means the investors have 
better options elsewhere; a lower  Discount Rate  makes a company more valuable . 
 
5. How do you calculate Terminal Value in a DCF, and which method is best ? 
You can use the Multiples Method  or the Gordon Growth  Method  (AKA Long -Term Growth 
Method, Perpetuity Growth Method, etc.) . 
With the first one, you apply a Terminal M ultiple to the company’s EBITDA, EBIT, NOPAT, or FCF 
in the final year of the forecast period. For example, if you apply a 10x TEV / EBITDA multiple to 
the company’s Year 10 EBITDA of $500, its Terminal Value is $5,000.  
With the Gordon Growth Method, you assign a “Terminal Growth Rate” to the company’s Free 
Cash Flows in the Terminal Period and assume they’ll grow at that rate forever.  
Terminal Value  = Final Year Free Cash Flow * (1 + Terminal Growth Rate) / (Discount Rate – 
Terminal Growth Rate)  
The Gordon Growth Method is better from a theoretical perspective because growth always  
slows down over time ; all companies’ cash flows eventually grow more slowly than GDP . 
If you use the Multiples Method, it’s easy to pick a multiple that makes  no logical sense  
because it implies a growth rate that’s too high.  
However, many bankers still use and prefer the Multiples Method because it’s “easier” or 
because they don’t understand that a Terminal Multiple implies a Terminal Growth Rate.  
 
6. What are some signs that you might be using the incorrect assumptions in a DCF?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
113 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The most common signs of trouble are:  
1. Too Much Value from the PV of Terminal Value  – It usually accounts for at least 50% of 
the company’s total Implied Value, but it shouldn’t represent 95% of its value.  
 
2. Implied Terminal Growth Rate s or Terminal Multiples That Don’t Make Sense  – If you 
pick a Terminal Multiple that implies a Terminal FCF Growth Rate of 8%, but the 
country’s long -term GDP growth rate is 3%, something is wrong.  
 
3. You’re Double -Counting Items  – If an expense is deducted  in FCF, you should not 
subtract the corresponding Liability  in the Enterprise Value → Equit y Value “bridge. ” 
And if an expense is not deducted  in FCF, you should  subtract the corresponding 
Liability in the bridge  at the end  (e.g., Interest and Debt in an Unlevered DCF) . 
 
4. Mismatched Final Year FCF Growth  Rate  and Terminal Growth Rate  – If the company’s 
Free Cash Flow is growing at 15% in the final year , but you ’ve assumed a 2% Terminal 
Growth Rate, something is wrong. FCF growth should decline over time and ap proach 
the Terminal Growth Rate by the end of the explicit forecast period.  
 
7. If your DCF seems  wrong , what are the easiest ways to fix it?  
The simplest method is to extend the explicit forecast period  so that the company’s Free Cash 
Flow contributes a higher percentage of the Implied Value  and so that there’s more time for the 
FCF growth to slow down and approach the Terminal Growth Rate.  
So, if you’re using a 5 -year forecast period, extend it to 10 -15 years and reduce the company’s 
FCF growth in those extra years as it approaches maturity.  
To avoid double -counting items … look at what you’re doing , and don’t double count!  
Finally, you can reduce the Terminal Value by picking a lower Terminal Growth Rate or lower 
Terminal Multiple. Terminal Value tends to be overstated in financial models because people 
don’t understand the theory behind it.  
 
8. How do you interpret the results of a DCF?  
You compare the company’s Implied  Enterprise Value, Equity Value, or Share Price to its Current  
Enterprise Value, Equity Value, or Share Price to see if it might be overvalued or undervalued.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
114 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You do this over a range of assumptions  because investing is probabilistic . 
For example, if you believe that  the company’s Implied Share Price is between $15.0 0 and 
$20.00, but its Current Share Price is $8.00, that means the company  may be undervalued . 
But if its Current Share Price is $17.00, then it may be valued appropriately.  
 
9. Does a DCF ever make sense for a company with negative cash flow s? 
Maybe . A DCF is based  on a company’s expected future cash flows , so even if the company is 
cash flow -negative  right now, the analysis could work if the company starts generating positive 
cash flow s in the future.  
But if  the company has no path to positive cash flows, or you can’t reasonably forecast its cash 
flow s, then the analysis doesn’t make sense.  
 
10. How do the Levered DCF and Adjusted Present Val ue (APV) analysis differ from the 
Unlevered DCF?  
In a Levered DCF, you use Levered FCF for the cash flows (i.e., deduct the Net Interest Expense 
and include changes in Debt principal) and Cost of Equity for the Discount Rate, and you 
calculate Terminal Value using Equity Value -based multiples such as P /  E. 
You don’t back into Implied Equity Value at the end because the analysi s produces the Implied 
Equity Value directly.  
An APV Analysis is similar to a traditional Unlevered DCF, but you value the company’s Interest 
Tax Shield  separately and add the Present Value of this Tax Shield at the end.  
You still calculate Unlevered FCF and Terminal Value the same way, but you use Unlevered  Cost 
of Equity for the Discount Rate (i.e., Risk -Free Rate + Equity Risk Premium * Median Unlevered 
Beta  from Public Comps ). 
You then project the Interest Tax Shield each year, discount it at that same Discount Rate , 
calculate the Interest Tax Shield Term inal Value, discount it, and add up everything at the end.  
 
11. Will you get the same results from an Unlevered DCF and a Levered DCF?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
115 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
No. The simplest explanation is that an Unlevered DCF  does not directly factor the Cost of Debt 
into the FCF projections, while a Levered FCF does. The Unlevered DCF indirectly accounts for it 
via the WACC calculation, but it won’t be equivalent to the Levered version.  
That alone will create difference s, but the volatile cash flows in a Levered DCF (due to changes 
in Debt principal) will also play a role. It’s very difficult to pick equivalent assumptions, and it’s 
not worth thinking about because no one uses the Levered DCF in real life.  
 
12. Why do you t ypically use the Unlevered DCF rather than the Levered DCF or APV Analysis?  
The traditional Unlevered DCF is easier to set up, forecast, and explain, and it produces more 
consistent results that depend far less on the company’s capital structure.  
With the other methods, you have to project  the company’s Cash and Debt  balances , Net 
Interest Expense , and changes in Debt principal , all of which require more time and effort.  
The Levered DCF sometimes produces odd results because irregular Debt principa l repayments 
can shift the Levered FCF dramatically in certain years.  
The APV Analysis is flawed because it doesn’t  factor in the main  downside of Debt:  the 
increased chance  of bankruptcy  (unless you make a special adjustment for it).  
The Unlevered DCF solves this issue because WACC initially decreases with additional Debt  but 
then starts increasing  past a certain level, reflecting  both the advantages and disadvantages of 
Debt.  
Return to Top . 
 
DCF Analysis – Calculating Free Cash Flow  
Calculating Unlevered FCF is simple if you remember the key rule : include only  recurring items  
that are related to the company’s core business  and that are available to all the investor groups.  
There are some trickier topics, but you can answer 90% of interview questions by 
understanding that rule.  
 
1. Why do you calculate Unlevered Free Cash Flow by including and excluding various items  
on the financial statements ? 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
116 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Unlevered FCF must capture the company’s core, recurring line items available to ALL investor 
groups . 
That’s because Unlevered FCF corresponds to Enterprise Value, which also represents the value 
of the company’s core business available to all investor groups.  
So, if an item is NOT  recurring, NOT  related  to the company’s core business, or NOT  available to 
all investor groups, you ignore it . 
This rule explains why you ignore these items:  
• Net Interest Expense  – Only available to Debt investors . 
• Other Income / (Expense)  – Corresponds to non -core  or non -operating  Assets . 
• Most non -cash adjustments  besides D&A  – They’re non -recurring . 
• All Items in Cash Flow from Financing  – They’re only available to certain investors . 
• Most of Cash Flow from Investing  – Only CapEx is a  recurring, core -business item . 
 
2. How does the Change in Working Capital affect Free Cash Flow , and what does it tell you 
about a company’s business model ? 
The Change in Working Capital tells you whether the company generates  extra cash as it grows 
or whether it requires  extra cash to support its growth.  
It’s related to whether a company records expenses and revenue  before  or after  paying or 
collecting them in cash.  
For example, retailers tend to have negative values for the Change in Working Capital because 
they usually have to pay for Inventory before delivering  it to customers . 
But subscription -based software companies often have positive values for the Change in 
Working Capital because they might collect cash from long -term subscriptions upfront and 
recognize it as revenue over time.  
The Change in WC could increase or decrease the company’s Free Cash Flow, but it’s rarely a 
major value driver because it’s fairly small for most companies.  
 
3. Should you add back Stock -Based Compensat ion to calculate Free Cash Flow?  It’s a non -
cash add -back on the Cash Flow Statement . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
117 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
No! You should  consider SBC a cash expense  in the context of valuation because it creates 
additional shares  and dilutes the existing investors.  
By contrast, Depreciation & Amortization relate to timing differences : the company paid for a 
capital asset earlier  on but divides that payment  over many years  and recognizes it over time . 
Stock -Based Compensation is a non -cash add-back on the Cash Flow Statement, but the context  
is different: accounting rather than valuation.  
In a DCF, you should count SBC as a real cash expense  or, if you count it as a non -cash add -back, 
you should assume additional shares  by increasing the company’s diluted share count . Either 
way, the company’s Implied Share Price decreases.  
Many DCFs get this wrong because they use n either approach: they pretend that SBC is a non -
cash add-back that mak es no impact on the share count (wrong!).  
 
4. What’s the proper tax rate to use when calculating FCF – the effective tax rate, the 
statutory tax rate , or the cash tax rate?  
The company’s Free Cash Flows should reflect the cash taxes  it pays.  
So, it doesn’t matter which rate you use as long as the cash taxes are correct.  
For example, you could use the company’s effective tax rate (Income Statement Taxes / Pre -Tax 
Income) and t hen include an adjustment for Deferred Taxes.  
Or you could calculate and use the company’s “cash tax rate” and skip the Deferred Tax 
adjustments . 
You could even use the statutory tax rate and make adjustments for state/local taxes and other 
items to arrive at the company’s real cash taxes.  
It’s most common to use the effective tax rate  and then adjust for the Deferred Taxes based on 
historical trends.  
 
5. How should CapEx and Depreciation change within the explicit forecast period?  
Just like the company’s Free Cash Flow growth rate should decline in the explicit forecast 
period, the company’s CapEx and Depreciation , as percentages of revenue, should decrease.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
118 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
High-growth companies tend to spend more on Capital Expenditures to support  their growth, 
but this spending declines over time as they move  from “ growing ” to “ mature .” 
If the company’s FCF is growing , CapEx should always exceed Depreciation, but there may be  a 
smaller difference  by the end.  
CapEx should not equal Depreciation  – even in the Terminal Period  (again, assuming the 
company is still growing).  
That’s partially due to inflation (capital assets purchased 5 -10 years ago cost less)  and because 
Net PP&E must keep growing to support FCF Growth in the Terminal Period.  
If the company’s FCF stagnates  or declines , then you might use different assumption s. 
 
6. Should you include inflation in the FCF projections?  
In most cases, no. Clients and investors tend to think in nominal terms, and assumptions for 
prices and salaries tend to be based  on nominal figures.  
If you include inflation, you also need to forecast  inflation far into the future and adjust all 
figures in your analysis.  
That’s rarely worthwhile because of the uncertainty  and extra assumptions required.  
 
7. If the company’s capital structure is expected to change, how do you reflect it in FCF?  
You’ll reflect it directly in a Levered DCF because the company’s Net Interest Expense and Debt 
principal will change over time.  You’ll also change the Cost of Equity over time to reflect this.  
The changing capital structure won’t show up explicitly  in the projections of an Unlevered DCF , 
but you will still reflect it with the Discount Rate  – WACC will change as the company’s Debt  
and Equity levels change.  
 
8. What’s the relationship between subtracting an expense in the FCF projections and the 
Implied Equity Value calculation at the end of the DCF?  
If you subtract  a certain expense in FCF, then you should ignore  the corresponding Liability 
when moving from Implied Enterprise Value to Implied Equity Value at the end . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
119 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, with U.S. -based companies, you normally subtract  the Rental Expense on 
Operating Leases in the FCF projections because Rent is a standard operating expense.  
Therefore, you ignore  the Operating Lease Liability i n the Enterprise Value bridge at the end.  
But if you exclude or add  back  the Rental Expense in FCF, you do the opposite and subtract  the 
Operating Lease Liability in the bridge.  
This rule also explains why you subtract Debt  in the bridge for an Unlevered analysis: UFCF 
excludes  the corresponding Interest Expense on the Debt.  
 
9. How do Net Operating Losses (NOLs) factor into Free Cash Flow?  
You could set up an NOL schedule and apply the NOLs to reduce the company’s cash taxes, also 
factoring  in NOL accruals if the company earns negative Pre -Tax Income.  
If you do this, you don’t need to count the NOLs in the Implied Enterprise Value → Implied 
Equity Value bridge at the end.  
However, it’s far easier  to skip that separate schedule and add NOLs as non-operating Assets in 
the bridge.  
Beyond the extra work, one problem with the first approach is that the company may not use 
all of its NOLs by the end of the explicit forecast period!  
Yes, you could account for this by calculating the Terminal Value of the NOLs , discounting it  to 
Present Value, and adding it to the other components , but it’s extra work for almost no benefit.  
 
10. How do pensions factor into the Free Cash Flow  calculations ? 
There are different components of the Pension Expense, including the Service Cost, the Interest 
Expense, the Expected  Return on Plan Assets, the Amortization of Net Losses or Gains, and 
Other Adjustments.  
The Service Cost is an operating expense and should be deducted in both types of Free Cash 
Flow (and then added back as a non -cash expense). The company incurs this expense regardless 
of the funded status of its plan  because it’s based on the employee count, average salary, years 
of employment, etc., and so it is considered operational.  
In an Unlevered DCF, you exclude  the non-operational components: the Interest Expense , 
Expected Return on Plan Assets, and Amortizati on of Net Losses or Gains . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
120 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You should also subtract the company’s contributions into the plan because those are also 
operational (they do not depend on the plan’s funded status).  
Then, if the pension plan is unfunded (Pension Liabilities > Pension Assets), you subtract  this 
unfunded portion when moving from Implied Enterprise Value to Imp lied Equity Value.  You 
may also multiply it by (1 – Tax Rate) if pension contributions are tax -deductible.  
In a Levered DCF, the main difference is that you deduct all expenses  associated with the 
pension plan (everything mentioned above, including company contributions) because there is 
no “bridge” at the end. So, all associated expenses must be deducted within Levered FCF.  
 
11. Should you ever include items such as asset sales , impairments, or acquisitions in FCF?  
For the most part, no . You certainly shouldn’t  make speculative projections for these items – 
they are all non -recurring . 
If a compan y has announced plans to sell an asset, make an acquisition, or record a write -down 
in the near future , the n you might factor it into FCF for that year.  
And if it’s an acquisition or divestiture, you’ll have to adjust FCF to refl ect the cash spent or 
received , and you’ll have to change the company’s cash flow after the deal takes place . 
 
12. How should the Operating and Finance Lease expenses factor into the Unlevered FCF 
calculations?  
It depends on how you’re treating these items in the TEV bridge and the WACC calculation.  
We recommend  deducting the full expenses associated with all Leases directly within UFCF and 
then not subtracting the corresponding Liabilities in the bridge and not counting them as a 
source of capital within WACC.  
That is fairly simple for U.S. -based companies and requires a small deduction for the Interest 
element of the Finance Lease expense  (if the company has Finance Leases).  
For IFRS -based companies, you’ll have to deduct the Interest element for both lease expenses 
within UFCF.  
In both cases, should add back only  the D&A on owned assets , not the Lease D&A  (remember 
that the Interest/Depreciation split is artificial – the company still pays a cash lease expense 
regardless of the lease type).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
121 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If you want  to do extra work , you could take the opposite approach and add back or exclude  the 
full Lease expense and  then subtract the Lease Liabilities in the bridge and include them in 
WACC.  
If you do that, you’ll have to add back the Rental Expense for U.S. -based companies and the 
Depreciation element of Finance Leases when calculating “Lease -Adjusted EBIT ” so that UFCF is 
a higher number that excludes the full lease expense (and ignore this Depreciation element in 
the D&A add -back).  And you’ll have to deduct the Change in the PV of Lease Liabilities each 
year to reflect the cash cost of new leases . 
For IFR S-based companies, you’ll have to add back the Depreciation element of both lease 
expenses so that “Lease -Adjusted EBIT” excludes the full expense (and ignore this portion in the 
D&A add -back).  
 
13. How does the Unlevered Free Cash Flow calculation differ for U.S. vs. non -U.S. 
companies?  
It’s mostly a question of how you’re treating Operating and Finance Leases, which was 
explained in the previous question.  
It’s easiest  to deduct the full Lease Expense from all lease types in the UFCF cal culation. For 
IFRS -based companies, that means finding and deducting the Interest element of the lease 
expense for both types and adding back only D&A on owned assets . 
But you could use the opposite approach as well  (described above ). 
Non -U.S. companies also tend to disclose less information, especially in emerging and frontier 
markets, so you may have to settle  for simpler UFCF projections as well.  
Return to Top . 
 
DCF Analysis – Discount Rates and WACC  
Questions related to the Discount Rate and WACC in a DCF are surprisingly tricky because it’s 
not always easy to explain how the assumptions are linked.  
You don’t need to know every single detail of these calculations , but you should know the 
intuition  behind everything.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
122 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If you understand that the Discount Rate represents the opportunity cost and that the Debt and 
Equity levels affect all investors, you can answer most of these questions.  
 
1. What does the Cost of Equity mean intuitively?  
It tells you the average percentage a company’s stock “should” return  each year , over the very 
long term, factoring in both stock -price appreciation and dividends . 
In a valuation, it represents the average annualized percentage that equity investor s might earn 
over the long term.  
To a company, the Cost of Eq uity represents the cost of funding its operations by issuing 
additional shares to investors.  
The company “pays for” Equity via potential Dividends (a real cash expense) and by diluting 
existing investors . 
 
2. What does WACC mean intuitively?  
WACC is similar to Cost of Equity, but it’s the expected annual ized return if you invest 
proportionately in all parts of the company’s capital structure – Debt, Equity, and Preferred 
Stock . 
To a company, WACC represents the cost of funding its operations b y using all its sources of 
capital and keeping its capital structure percentages the same over time.  
Investors might invest in a company if its expected IRR exceeds WACC, and a company might 
decide to fund a new project, acquisition, or expansion if its expected IRR exceeds WACC.  
 
3. How do you calculate the Cost of Equity?  
Cost of Equity  = Risk -Free Rate + Equity Risk Premium * Levered Beta  
The Risk-Free Rate represents the yield on "risk -free" government bonds denominated in the 
same currency as  the company’s cash flows.  You usually use 10 -year or 20 -year bonds to match 
the explicit forecast period of the DCF.  
Levered Beta represents the volatility of this stock relative to  the market as a whole, factoring 
in both intrinsic business risk and risk from leverage . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
123 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
And the Equity Risk Premium represents how much the stock market in the company’s country 
will return above the “risk -free” government bond yield in the long term.  
Stocks are riskier and have higher potential  returns than government bonds, so you take the 
yield on those government bonds, add the extra  returns you could get from the stock market, 
and then adjust for this company’s  specific risk and potential returns.  
 
4. If a company operates in the EU, U.S., and U.K., what should you use for its Risk -Free Rate?  
You should use the yield (to maturity) on the government bonds denominated in the currency 
of the company’s cash flows.  
So, if the company reports its financials in USD, you might use the yield on 10-year U.S. 
Treasur ies; if it reports  them  in EUR or GBP, you might use the yield on 10 -year bonds issued by 
the European Central Bank  or the Bank of England . 
 
5. What should you use for the Risk -Free Rate if government bonds in the country are NOT 
risk-free (e.g., Greece)?  
One option is to take the Risk -Free Rate in a country that is “risk -free,” like the U.S. or U.K., and 
then add a default spread  based on your country’s credit rating.  
For example, you might start with a rate of 1.3% for 10 -year U.S. Treasuries and then add a 
spread of ~7% for Greece based on its current credit rating  (this is just an example ; these 
numbers change all the time).  
This 8.3% Risk -Free Rate represents the additional risk because the government has a 
significantly higher chance of defaulting.  
 
6. How do you calculate the Equity Risk Premium?  
Stock -market returns differ based on the period  and whether you use a n arithmetic mean, a 
geom etric mean, or other approaches, so there’s no universal method.  
Many firms use a publication called “Ibbotson’s” that publishes Equity Risk Premium data for 
companies of different sizes in different industries each year; some academic sources also track 
and report this data.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
124 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You could also take the historical data for the U.S. stock market and add a premium based on 
the default spread of a specific country . 
For example, if the historical U.S. premium is 7%, you might add 3% to it if your  country’s credit 
rating is Ba2, and t hat rating corresponds to a 3% spread.  
Some groups also use a “standard number” for each market, such as 5-6% in developed 
countries.  
 
7. How do you calculate the Equity Risk Premium  for a multinational company that operates 
in many different geographies?  
You might take the percentage of revenue earned in each country, multiply it by the ERP in that 
market, and then add the terms to get the weighted average ERP.  
To calculate the ERP in each market, you might use one of the methods described in the 
previous question. T he “Historical U.S. stock market returns + def ault spread” approach is 
common here.  
 
8. What does Beta mean intuitively?  
Levered Beta  tells you how volatile a company’s stock price is relative to  the stock market as a 
whole, factoring in both intrinsic business risk  and risk from leverage  (i.e., D ebt).  
If Beta is 1.0, when the market goes up 10%, this company’s stock price also goes up by 10%.  
If Beta is 2.0, when the market goes up 10%, this company’s stock price goes up by 20%.  
Unlevered Beta  excludes the risk from leverage and reflects only the intrinsic business risk, so 
it’s always less than or equal to Levered Beta.  
 
9. Could Beta ever be negative?  
Yes, it’s possible. T he company’s stock price must move in the opposite direction  of the entire 
market for Beta to be negative.  
Gold is commonly cited  as an A sset with a negative Beta  because it often performs better when 
the stock market declines, and it may act as a “hedge” against disastrous events.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
125 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
However, negative Betas for traditional companies  are quite rare and usually revert to positive 
figures, even if they’re negative for short periods . 
 
10. Why do you have to un -lever and re -lever Beta when calculating the Cost of Equity?  
You don’t “have to” un -lever and re -lever Beta: you could just use the company’s historical  
Levered  Beta  and skip this step.  
But in a valuation, you’re estimating the company’s Implied Value : what it should be worth . 
The historical Beta corresponds more closely to the company’s Current Value – what the 
market says it’s worth today . 
By un -levering Beta for each comparable company, you capture the inherent business risk  in 
“the industry as a whole.”  
Each company might have a different capital structure, so it’s useful to remove the risk from 
leverage and isolate the inherent business risk.  
You then take the median Unlevered Beta from these companies and re -lever it based on the 
capital structure (targeted or actual) of the company you’re valuing . 
You do this because  there will always be business  risk and risk from leverage, so you need to 
reflect both in the valuation.  
You can think of th e result , Re-Levered Beta , as: “What the volatility  of this company ’s stock 
price , relative to  the market as a whole, should be , based on the median business risk of its peer 
companies and this company’s  capital structure.”  
 
11. What are the formulas for un-levering and re -levering Beta, and what do they mean?  
Unlevered Beta  = Levered Beta / (1 + Debt  / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate)  + Preferred Stock / Equity ) 
Levered Beta  = Unlevered Beta * (1 + Debt  / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate)  + Preferred Stock / Equity ) 
You use a “1 +” in front of Debt  / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate) to ensure that Unlevered Beta is always 
less than or equal to Levered Beta.  
You multiply the Debt  / Equity term by (1 – Tax Rate) because the tax-deductibility of interest 
reduces the risk of Debt.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
126 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The formulas reduce  Levered Beta to represent the removal  of risk from leverage, but they 
increase  Unlevered Beta to represent the addition  of risk from leverage.  
 
12. The formulas for Beta do not factor in the interest rate on Debt. Isn’t that wrong? More 
expensive Debt should be riskier.  
Yes, this is one drawback. However:  
1. The Debt / Equity ratio is a proxy for i nterest rates on D ebt because companies with 
high er Debt / Equity ratios have to pay higher interest rates as well.  
 
2. The r isk isn’t directly proportional to interest rates . Higher interest on Debt will result 
in lower coverage ratios (EBITDA / Interest) , but you can’t  say something like , “Interest 
is now 4% rather than 1% – the risk from leverage is 4x higher.”  
A 4% vs. 1% interest rate barely makes a difference if the Debt balance is small, but it will be a 
much bigger deal with large Debt balances and smaller compani es. 
 
13. Do you still un -lever and re -lever Beta even when you’re using Unlevered FCF?  
Yes. Un-levering and re -levering Beta has nothing  to do with Unlevered vs. Levered FCF.  
A company’s capital structure affects both the Cost  of Equity and WACC , so you un -lever and re -
lever Beta regardless of the type of Free Cash Flow you’re using.  
 
14. What are some different ways to calculate Beta in the Cost of Equity calculation?  
Some people argue that you should use  the Predicted  Beta  instead of the Historical Beta  
because  the Cost of Equity relates to expected  future returns . 
If you use the historical data , you could use the company’s Historical Beta or the re -levered 
Beta based on the comparable companies.  
And if you re -lever Beta, you could do it based on the company’s current capital structure , its 
targeted  or “optimal” structure, or the capital structur e of the comparable companies.  
Most of these methods produce similar results, but they’re useful for establishing the proper 
range of values  for the Cost of Equity and WACC.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
127 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
15. How w ould you estimate the Cost of Equity for a U.S. -based high -growth technology 
company?  
This question tests your ability to make a gu esstimate based on common sense and your 
knowledge of current market rates.  
You might say, “The Risk -Free Rate is around 1. 3% for 10 -year U.S. Treasuries. A high -growth 
tech company  is more volatile than the market as a whole, with a likely Beta of around 1.5. So, 
if you assume an Equity Risk Premium of 6%, the Cost of Equity might be around 10.3 %.” 
The specific numbers will change over time , but that’s the idea . 
 
16. How do you calculate WACC, and what makes it tricky?  
The formula  for WACC is simple:  
WACC  = Cost of Equity *  % Equity + Cost of Debt * (1 – Tax Rate) * % Debt + Cost of Preferred 
Stock * % Preferred Stock  
But it’s tricky to calculate because there are different methods to estimate these items:  
1. Cost  of Debt:  Do you use the weighted average coupon rate on the company’s bonds? 
Or the Yield to Maturity (YTM)? Or the YTM of Debt from comparable c ompanies?  
 
2. Percentages of Debt, Equity, and Preferred  Stock : Do you use the company’s current 
capital structure, “optimal” structure, or targeted structure?  Or do you use the median 
percentages from the comparable public companies  to approximate one of those ? 
 
3. Cost  of Equity:  There are different ways to calculate Beta, and no one agrees on the 
proper Equity Risk Premium.  
 
17. WACC reflects the company’s entire capital structure, so why do you pair it with 
Unlevered FCF? WACC is not capital structure -neutral!  
Think of Unlevered FCF as “Free Cash Flow to Firm,” or FCFF, instead . 
Unlevered FCF , or FCFF,  is available to ALL investors, and WACC represents ALL investors.  
Therefore, you pair WACC with Unlevered FCF.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
128 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
No Discount Rate can be “capital s tructure -neutral” since each part of a company’s capital 
structure affects the other parts.  
“Capital -structure neutrality” is a pr operty of Free Cash Flow , not the Discount Rate.  
 
18. Should you use the company’s current capital structure or optimal capital structure to 
calculate WACC?  
A company’s “optimal” capital structure is the one that minimizes its WACC. But there’s no way 
to calculate it because you can’t tell in advance  how the Costs of Equity , Debt, and Preferred 
Stock will change as the capital structure changes.  
So, in practice, you’ll often use the median capital structure percentages from the comparable 
public companies as a proxy for the “optimal” capital structure.  
It’s the same as the logic for un -levering and re -levering Beta: you want to capture what this 
company’s capital structure should be , not what it is right now.  
It’s better to use this expected  capital s tructure because the company’s Implied V alue in a DCF 
is based  on its expected  future cash flows.  
 
19. Should you use Total Debt or  Net Debt to determine the capital structure percentages  in 
the WACC calculation?  
Some textbooks claim that you should use Equity Value + Debt + Preferred Stock – Cash, rather 
than Equity Value + Debt + Preferred Stock, for the denominator of the capital structure 
percentages . 
We disagree  with this approach for several reasons:  
1) Cash Does Not “Offset” Debt  – For example, many forms of Debt do not allow for early 
repayment or penalize the company for early repayment. So, a high Cash balance 
doesn’t necessarily reduce the risk of Debt on a 1:1 basis.  
 
2) You May Get Nonsensical Results with High Cash Balances  – For example, consider a 
company with an Equity Value of $1,000, Debt of $200, and Cash of $800. If you use 
Debt / (Equity Value + Debt – Cash), Debt represents 50% of the company’s capital 
structure! But that’s incorrect for this type of company ; the ~17% Debt produced by the 
traditional method is much closer to reality.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
129 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
20. Why is Equity more expensive than Debt?  
Because it offers higher risk and higher potential re turns.  
Expected stock market returns  (plus dividends)  exceed the yield to maturity on Debt in most 
cases, which , by itself, makes the Cost of Equity higher. B ut the interest on Debt is also tax -
deductible, which further reduces the Cost of Debt and makes Equity more expensive.  
In developed markets , the average annualized stock market return is often in the 7 -10% range, 
so a company with a Levered Beta of 1.0 will have a Cost of Equity in that range.  
For the Cost of Debt to be higher, the Pre-Tax Cost  would have to be ~9-13% at a 25% tax rate. 
Outside of highly leverage d and distressed companies, corporate bond yields in that range are 
uncommon  when government bond yields are close to 0% (or even below it).  
 
21. How does the Cost of Preferred Stock compare with the Cost  of Debt and the Cost of 
Equity ? 
Preferred Stock tends to be more expensive than Debt  but less expensive than Equity: it offers 
higher risk and potential returns than Debt, but lower risk and potential returns than Equity.  
That’s because the coupon rates on Preferred Stock tend to be higher than the coupon rates on 
Debt  (and the same with the YTMs) , and Preferred Dividends are not tax-deductible.  
But these yields are still lower than  expected stock market returns. T he risk i s also lower since 
the Preferred Stock investors have a higher claim to the company’s Ass ets than the common 
shareholders.  
 
22. How do you determine the Cost of Debt and Cost of Preferred Stock in the WACC 
calculation , and what do they mean ? 
These Costs  represent what the company would pay if it issued additional  Debt or additional  
Preferred  Stock . 
There is no way to observe these costs directly , but you can estimate them.  
For example, you could calculate the weighted average coupon rate on the company’s existing 
Debt or Preferred Stock  or the median coupon rate on the outstanding issuances of comparable 
public companies.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
130 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You could also use the Yield to Maturity (YTM), which reflects both the coupon rate s on bonds 
and their market values  (e.g., a bond with a coupon rate of 5% that’s trading at a discount to 
par value will have a YTM higher than 5%).  
Finally, y ou could also take the Risk -Free Rate and add a default spread  based on the 
company’s expected credit rating if it issues more Debt or Preferred  Stock . If you think its credit 
rating will fall from BB+ to BB after issuing Debt, you’d look up the average spread for BB -rated 
companies an d add it to the Risk -Free Rate.  
 
23. How do convertible bonds factor into the WACC calculation?  
If the company’s current share price exceeds the conversion price of the bonds, you count the 
bonds as Equity and use a higher diluted share count, resulting in a higher Equity Value for the 
company and a greater Equity weighting in the WACC formula.  
But if the bonds are not currently convertible, you count them as Debt and use the YTM of 
equivalent, non -convertible bonds  to calculate the Cost of Debt.  
You cannot  use the stated coupon rate on convertible bonds or even the ir YTM because 
convertibles offer lower coupon rates than standard corporate bonds  – due to the value of the 
conversion option.  
But if the bonds cannot convert into Equity, you must count them as traditional Debt.  
Convertible bonds usually reduce WACC when they count  as Debt since the Cost of Debt is 
lower than the Cost of Equity  (but this result may not hold for highly leveraged companies  due 
to the “U -shaped curve” for WACC ). 
 
24. How do the Cost of Equity, Cost of Debt, and WACC change as a company uses more 
Debt?  
The Cost  of Equity and the Cost of Debt always increase  because more Debt increases the risk 
of bankruptcy, which affects all investors.  
As a company goes from no Debt to some Debt, WACC initially decreases because Debt is 
cheaper than Equity, but it starts increasing at higher levels of Debt as the risk of ba nkruptcy 
starts to outweigh the cost benefits of Debt.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
131 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
However, the exact impact de pends on where the company is on that curve . If the company 
already has a very high level of Debt, WACC is likely to increase with more Debt; at lower levels 
of Debt, WACC is more likely to decrease with more Debt.  
 
25. If a company previously used 20% Debt and 80% Equity, but it just paid off all its Debt, 
how does that affect its WACC?  
It depends o n how you’re calculating WACC. I f you’re using the company’s current  capital 
structure, WACC will most likely increase  becau se 20% Debt is a fairly low level. At that low 
level, the benefits of Debt tend to outweigh its risks, so  less Debt will increase WACC.  
But if you’re using the targ eted, optimal, or median capital structure from the comparable 
companies , this change won’t affect WACC because you’re not using the company’s current 
capital structure at all.  
 
26. Should you ever use *different* Discount Rates for different years in a DCF?  
Yes, sometimes it makes sense to use different Discount Rates.  
For example, if a company is grow ing quickly right now  but is expected to grow more slowly in 
the future, you might decrease the Discount Rate each year until the company reaches 
maturity.  
So, if the company’s current WACC is between 11% and 13%, and WACC for mature companies 
in the industry is between 8% and 9%, you might start it at 12% and then reduce it by 0.4 % in 
each year of the explicit forecast period until it reaches 8.4 % by the end.  
It makes less sense to do this if  the company is already mature . 
 
27. How do Operating Leases and Finance Leases affect the Discount Rate?  
Most companies have small Finance Lease balances that they group with Debt; if that is the 
case, Finance Leases don’t affect much because they’re small and are already considered a form 
of Debt in the Discount Rate calculations.  
You could argue that Finance Leases are not “capital” and remove them from the Debt 
balances . If you do that, the Discount Rate would likely increase slightly (since Debt and Finance 
Leases are both cheaper than Equity), but the difference would be marginal.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
132 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Operating Leases a re more significant, and it’s easiest not to count them in in WACC at all and 
deduct the full Operating Lease Expense in the UFCF projections.  
If you want to count Operating Leases as capital, you need to look up the Cost of Leases in the 
company’s filings , add another term for Leases when un -levering and re -levering Beta, and add 
a term for Leases in the WACC formula  (see below).  
 
28. If you count Operating Leases as a form of capital, how do the Cost of Equity and WACC 
calculations change?  
If you calculate the Cost of Equity based on the company’s historical Beta, nothing changes.  
If you un -lever Beta for each comparable company and then re -lever it, you add an extra term 
for the Leases:  
Unlevered Beta  = Levered Beta / (1 + Debt  / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate)  + Leases / Equity * (1 – Tax 
Rate)  + Preferred Stock / Equity ) 
Levered Beta  = Unlevered Beta * (1 + Debt / Equity * (1 – Tax Rate) + Leases / Equity * (1 – Tax 
Rate)  + Preferred Stock / Equity ) 
And in the WACC formula, you do the same:  
WACC  = Cost of Equity *  % Equity + Cost of Debt * (1 – Tax Rate) * % Debt + Cost of Leases * (1 
– Tax Rate) * % Leases + Cost of Preferred Stock * % Preferred Stock  
The Cost of Leases is based on the discount rate the company uses in its filings to calculate the 
Present Value of its Lease Liabilities.  
 
29. All else being equal, will counting all Leases as “capital” increase or decrease the Cost of 
Equity, Cost of Debt, and WACC?  
If you treat Leases this way, the Cost of Debt should not change because Debt and Leases are 
now separate items, and the Cost of Debt is still based on the YTM of the company’s bonds  (it 
might be slightly different if you remove Finance Leases from Total Debt).  
The Cost of Equity will stay the same or decrease slightl y because the Unlevered Beta figures 
from the public comps will be lower if Leases are considered a form of leverage.  But anything 
could happen when you re -lever Beta , so this change might be marginal.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
133 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
WACC will usually  decrease  because Leases are, effectively, low -cost Debt, and Debt is already 
cheaper than Equit y. Also, t he entire Lease Expense, like interest on Debt, is tax -deductible . 
There may be exceptions for highly leveraged companies and ones with huge or expensive lease 
portfolios; past a certain point, the extra risk might outweigh the benefits.  
 
30. Suppose you’re calculating WACC for two similarly sized companies in the same industry, 
but one company is in a developed market (DM) , and the other is in an emerging market  
(EM) . Will the EM company always have a higher WACC?  
It’s fair to say that certain components  of WACC, such as the Risk -Free Rate, Equity Risk 
Premium, and Cost of Debt, tend to be higher for the EM company.  
And if the Levered Beta numbers are similar or higher for the EM company, and the capital 
structure p ercentages are similar, yes, WACC should be higher as well.  
However , there are cases where differences in the capital structure or strange results for 
Levered Beta might result in a similar or lower WACC for the EM company.  
For example, if the government heavily controls the company’s industry in the emerging 
market, Levered Beta might be lower for the EM company due to the reduced volatility.  
Return to Top . 
 
DCF Analysis – Calculating the Terminal Valu e 
Many guides and textbooks tend to focus on the basics  of Terminal Value , such as the different 
ways to calculate it.  
But it’s more important to understand the trade -offs and how to use different methods to 
cross -check your work, which is why most of the questions here go beyond the basics.  
 
1. What is the difference between the explicit forecast period and the Terminal Period in a 
DCF?  
The company’s Free Cash Flow Growth R ate, and possibly its Discount Rate, change over time in 
the explicit forecast period since the company is still growing and changing . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
134 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But in the Terminal Period, you assume that the comp any remains in a “steady state”  forever : 
Its Free Cash Flow g rows at the same rate each year, and its Discount Rate remains the same.  
 
2. What’s the intuition behind the Gordon Growth formula for Terminal Value?  
The typical formula is:  
Terminal Value  = Final Year FCF * (1 + Terminal FCF Growth Rate) / (Discount Rate – Terminal 
FCF Growth Rate)  
But it’s more intuitive to think of it as:  
Terminal Value  = FCF in Year 1 of Terminal Period / (Discount Rate – Terminal FCF Growth Rate)  
A company is worth less  if the Dis count Rate is higher and worth  more  if the Terminal FCF 
Growth Rate is higher.  
For example, let’s say the company’s FCF is not growing , and its Discount Rate is 10%. It earns 
$100 in FCF in the first year of the Terminal Period.  
You would be willing to pay $100 / 10%, or $1,000, so the Terminal Value is $1,000. If the 
Discount Rate falls to 5%, now you’d pay $100 / 5%, or $2,000. I f it increases to 20%, you’d pay 
$100 / 20%, or $500.  
The company is worth more  when you have worse  investment options elsewhere  and worth 
less when you have better  investment options elsewhere.  
Now let’s say the company’s FCF is growing. If it grows by 3% per year, you’d be willing to pay 
$100 / (10% – 3%), or ~$1,429 for it. But if its FCF growth rate increases to 5% per year, you’d 
be willing to pay $100 / (10% – 5%), or $2,000, for it.  
Higher growth lets you achieve the same targeted return s even when you pay more.  
 
3. If you use the Multiples Method to calculate Terminal Value, do you use the multiples from 
the Public Comps or Precedent Transactions?  
It’s better to start with  the multiples from the Public Comps, ideally the ones from 1 -2 years 
into the future, because you don’t  want to reflect the control premium in the Precedent 
Transactions  if you’re completing a standalone valuation of the company.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
135 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the selected multiples imply a reasonable Terminal FCF Growth Rate, you might stick with 
your initial guess; if not, adjust it up or down as necessary.  
 
4. How do you pick the Terminal Growth Rate when you calculate the Terminal Value using 
the Gordon Growth Method?  
This growth rate should be below  the country’s long -term GDP growth rate and in -line with 
other macroeconomic variables like inflation.  
For example, if you’re in a developed country where the expected long -term GDP growth rate is 
3.0%, you might use numbers ranging from 1. 0% to 2. 0% for the range of Terminal Growth 
Rates.  
You should NOT  pick a rate  above the country’s long -term GDP growth rate because the 
company will become bigger than the economy as a whole if you go far enough into the future.  
You can then check your work by calculating the Terminal Multiples implied by these growth 
rates.  
 
5. Why do you need to discount the Terminal Value back to its Present Value?  
Because the Terminal Value represents the Present Value of the company’s cash flows from the 
end of the explicit fo recast period into perpetuity.  In other words, it represents the co mpany’s 
value AT a point in the future . 
Valuation tells you what a company is worth TODAY , so any “future value” must be discounted 
to its Present Value.  
If you did not discount the Terminal Value, you’d greatly overstate the company’s Implied Value  
because you’d be acting as if its Year 6, 11, or 16 cash flows arrived  in Year 2 instead.  
 
6. When you discount the Terminal Value, why do you use the number of the last year  in the 
forecast period for the discount period (for example, 10 for a 10 -year forecast)?  
Shouldn’t you use 11 since Terminal Value represents the Present Value of cash flows starting 
in Year 11?  
No. The Terminal Value does represent the Present Value of cash flows starting  in Year 11, but 
it’s the Present Value as of  the end  of Year 10 . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
136 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You would use 11 for the discount period only if your explicit forecast period went to Year 11 
and the Terminal Period started in Year 12.  
 
7. What do you do after summing the PV of Terminal Value and the PV of Free Cash Flows?  
If you’re building a Levered DCF analysis, you’re almost done  because this summation gives you 
the company’s Implied Equity Value. The last step is to divide the company’s Implied Equity 
Value by its diluted share count  to get its Implied Share Price (if the company is public).  
In an Unlevered DCF, the PV of Terminal Value + PV of Free Cash Flows equals  the company’s 
Implied Enterprise Value, so you have to “back into” the Implied Equity Value and then 
calculate its Implied Share Price.  
You do this by adding  non-operating  Assets (Cash, Investments, etc.) and subtracting  Liability 
and Equity i tems that represent other investor groups (Debt, Preferred Stock, N oncontrolling 
Interests, etc.).  
Then, you divide by th e company’s diluted share count to get its Implied Share Price.  
 
8. The diluted share count  includes  dilution from the company’s in-the-money  options.  
But what about its out-of-the-money options ? Shouldn’t you account for them  in a DCF?  
In theory, yes. Some academic sources use Black -Scholes to value these out -of-the-money 
options and then subtract them to determine the company’s Implied Equity Value.  
In practice, banks rarely include out-of-the-money o ptions in a DCF. These options tend to 
make a  small impact on most companies, and options valuation is tricky and requires inputs 
that you may or may not h ave. So, it is usually not worth the time and effort.  
 
9. How can you check whether or not your Terminal Value  estimate is reasonable?  
It’s an iterative process: you start by entering a range of assumptions for the Terminal Multiple 
or Terminal FCF Growth Rate , and then you cross -check your assumptions by calculating the 
Growth Rate s or Multiple s they imply . 
If it seems wrong , you adjust the range of Terminal Multiples or Terminal FCF Growth Rate s 
until you get more reasonable results.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
137 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Example:  You start by picking 10x TEV / EBITDA for the Terminal Multiple. At a Discount Rate of 
12%, this multiple implies a Terminal FCF Growth Rate of 5%, which is too high.  
So, you reduce it to 6x TEV / EBITDA, but now the Implied Terminal FCF Growth Rate drops to 
1%, which is too low.  
So, you guess 8x TEV / EBITDA, which implies a Terminal FCF Growth Rate of 2.3%. That is more 
reasonable since it’s below the exp ected long -term GDP growth rate but slightly above the 
inflation rate.  
This 8x figure might be your “Baseline Terminal Multiple,” so you  would  start there and go 
slightly above and below it in the sensitivity tables.  
 
10. What’s one problem with using TEV / EBITDA multiples to calculate Terminal Value?  
The biggest issue is that EBITDA ignores CapEx. Two companies with similar TEV / EBITDA 
multiples might have very different Free Ca sh Flow and FCF growth figures. As a result, their 
Implied V alues might differ significantly  even if they have similar TEV / EBITDA multiples.  
You may get better results by using TEV / EBIT, TEV / NOPAT, or TEV / Unlevered FCF, but those 
multiples create other issues , such as less compa rability across peer companies.  
This problem is one reason why the Gordon Growth Method is still the “real” way to calculate 
Terminal Value.  
 
11. Would it ever make sense to use a negative Terminal FCF Growth Rate?  
Yes. For example, if you’re valuing a biotech or pharmaceutical company and the patent on its 
key drug expires within the explicit forecast period, it might be reasonable to assume that the 
company never replaces the lost revenue from this drug, which results in declining cash flow.  
A negative Terminal FCF Growth Rate represen ts your expectation that the company will stop 
generating cash flow eventually  (even if it happens decades into the future).  
It doesn’t make the company “worthless”; the company is just worth less . 
 
12. How can you determine which assumptions to analyze in sensitivity tables for a DCF?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
138 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The same assumptions make a big impact in any DCF: the Discount Rate, the Terminal FCF 
Growth Rate or Terminal Multiple, and the key operational drivers that affect the company’s 
revenue growth and margins.  
These drivers could be entire scenarios or specific numbers, such as the long -term price of 
steel, depending on the model setup.  
It doesn’t make sense to sensitize much else – the assumptions for CapEx and the Change in 
Working Capital, for example, tend to make a small difference.  
There may also be industry -specific assumpt ions that are worth sensitizing, such as the patent 
expiration dates for d rugs in the biotech/pharmaceutical industry . 
Return to  Top. 
 
DCF Analysis – More Advanced Features  
You’re unlikely  to get questions about  these topics unless you h ave significant valuation -related 
work experience.  
The most important questions here relate to the mid-year convention and stub periods . The 
math can be a bit tricky, so it helps to complete a few examples yourself.  
 
1. Why do you use the mid -year convention in a DCF analysis?  
You use it because a company’s cash flows do not arrive 100% at the end of each year – the 
company generates cash flow throughout  each year.  
Using 1, 2, 3, 4 for the discount periods implies that the first year’s cash flow arrives after one 
entire year  has passed.  
If you use 0.5, 1.5, 2.5, 3.5  instead, you assume that only half a year  passes before the first cash 
flow is generated, which is closer to real life.  
 
2. How does the mid -year convention affect the output of a DCF?  
A DCF that uses the mid -year convention will produce higher Implied V alues  because the 
discount periods are lower.  For example, a formula like this:  
Present Value  = $100 / ((1 + 10%) ^ Year#)  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
139 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Will produce higher values  because the Year # of the first period would be 1.0 without  the mid -
year convention but 0.5 with  the mid -year convention.  
 
3. Why might you include a “stub period” in a DCF, and what does it mean?  
You might  include a “stub period” if you’re valuing a company midway through the year, and it 
has already reported some of its financial results  for the year . 
A DCF is based  on expected future cash flow , so you should subtract  these previously reported 
results and adjust the discount periods as well.  
For example, maybe it’s September 30th, and the company’s fiscal year ends on December 31st. 
The company’s future cash flow for this year  will be generated  between September 30th and 
December 31st. 
Therefore, you should exclude the cash flow from January 1st to September 30th in your 
projections since that part of the year has already passed.  
So, in the first year , you would include only the projected FCF from September 30th to 
December 31st. To discount the FCF in th ose 3 months , you would use 0.25 for the  discount 
period because  3 months  is 25% of the year.  
You would then use 1.25 for the discount period of the next year, 2.25 for the year  after that , 
and so on.  
 
4. You’re valuing a company on April 30th, and you want to use both stub period s and the 
mid-year convention in your analysis.  
How would you change the company’s Free Cash Flow, and which discount periods would you 
use?  
For the FCF, you would exclude everything generated between January 1st and April 30th and 
include only  the projected FCF generated  between April 30th and December 31st. 
Since most companies report only quarterly results, you would probably exclude the first 
quarter , not exactly the first 4 months.  
To reflect both the stub period and the mid -year convention, you would divide the stub period 
of the first year by 2. In each year after  that, you would subtract 0.5  from the “normal ” discount 
period.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
140 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In this case, April 30th is 1/3 through the year. Two -thirds of the year remains, so the “normal” 
stub discount period is 0.67.  
You would divide that by 2 to get 0.34.  You would then use that 0.34 period to discount the 
company’s FCF from April 30th to December 31st. 
The “normal” discount period of the next year is 0.67 + 1.00, or 1.67. So, you would take the 
1.67 and subtract 0.50 to get 1.17.  
For the next year after that, the “normal” discount period is 0.67 + 2.00, or 2.67, so you would 
subtract 0.50 to get 2.17. You would continue  that for the rest of the years in the forecast.  
 
5. Continuing with the same example, how would the Terminal Value and the PV of the 
Terminal Value change with this April 30th valuation?  
It depends on how you calculate the Terminal Value. With the Multiples Method , the Terminal 
Value calculation stays the same since it ’s based  on the company’s EBITDA  (or another metric ) 
in the final projected year times an appropriate multiple.  
When you discount the Terminal Value, the stub period affects the discount period, but the 
mid-year convention does not because the Terminal Value  via the Multiples Method  is as of the 
END of the last projected year . 
So, if the valuation date is April 30th, and there are 10 years in the projection period, you  would  
use 9.67 for the discount period to calculate the PV of the Terminal Value.  
With the Perpetuity Growth M ethod , the initial Terminal Value calculation stays the same and 
represents the company’s PV as of the end of Year 10 into the future.  
But since you’re using the mid -year convention, and this version of Terminal Value is based on 
cash flows assumed to arrive midway through each year, the discount period should be half a 
year earlier: 9.17 rather than 9.67.  
As a result, the PV of Terminal Value will be higher as well.  
 
6. Why might you create a “Normalized Terminal Year” in a DCF?  
You might create a Normalized Terminal Year if something about the company’s revenue 
growth, margins, Working Capital, or CapEx is expected to change  in a major way in the 
Terminal Period.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
141 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
As a result  of this change , multiplying Final Year FCF by (1 + Terminal FCF Growth Rate) won’t 
produce accurate results in the Terminal Value formula.  
For example, a key drug patent might expire in Year 9 or 10, or the company might have a huge 
Intangibles balance that gets completely amortized in Year 10 . 
The first scenario would make a huge impact on the company’s revenue, growth rates, and 
margins, and the second would affect the company’s margins and non -cash add -backs.  
You use the FCF in this Normalized Y ear for the numerator in the Terminal Value calculation 
rather than multiplying Final Year FCF by (1 + Terminal FCF Growth Rate).  
 
7. What impact does the Normalized Terminal Year make ? 
In most cases , the Normalized Terminal Year will reduce a company’s Implied Value because 
you usually adjust  down  the company’s growth rates and margins in this year (and remove non -
cash adjustments that might have benefited the company in previous periods).  
Return to Top . 
 
Factors That Affect a DCF Analysis  
This section is short because the previous sections have covered the key points here.  
Interviewers like to ask these questions because they want to test whether or not you 
understand the big picture . 
Anyone can memorize a DCF  walkthrough , but you can answer these questions only if you 
understand the underlying concepts.  
 
1. Which assumptions make the biggest impact on a DCF?  
The Discount Rate  and Terminal Value  make the biggest impact on the DCF. 
That’s because the Discount Rate affects the PV of everyt hing and because the PV of the 
Term inal Value often represents 50%+ of the company’s Implied V alue.  
The assumptions for revenue growth and operating margins also make a significant impact, but 
less than the ones above. Other items, such as CapEx, Working Capital, and non-cash 
adjustments , make a smaller impact  for most companies.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
142 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
2. Should the Cost of Equity and WACC be higher for a $5 billion or $500 million Equity Value 
company?  
Assuming that both companies have the same capital structure percentages , the Cost of Equity 
and WACC should be higher for the $500 million company.  
All else being equal, smaller companies tend to offer higher potential returns and higher risk 
than larger companies, which explains why the Cost of Equity will be higher.  
Since smaller compani es have a higher chance of defaulting on their Debt, their Cost of Debt 
(and Preferred) also tends to be higher.  
And since all the se Costs tend to be higher for smaller companies,  WACC should be higher  as 
well, assuming the same capital structure percentages . 
 
3. Would increasing the revenue growth from 9% to 10% or increasing the Discount Rate from 
9% to 10% make a bigger impact on a DCF?  
The Discount Rate increase will make a bigger impact. Increasin g the revenue growth from 9% 
to 10% will barely affect the FCF and Terminal Value, but the Discount Rate will affect the 
Present Value of everything, and 9% vs. 10% is a significant difference.  
 
4. Would it make a bigger impact to increase revenue growth from 9%  to 20%, or to increase 
the Discount Rate from 9% to 10%?  
It’s harder to tell  here . Doubling a company’s revenue growth could make a bigger impact than 
changing the Discount Rate by 1%, but when the changes are this different, you’d have to run 
the numbers to tell. 
These operational changes make a bigger impact in longer  projection periods  than in shorter 
ones, so  you would see more of a difference in a 10 -year DCF than a 5 -year one.  
 
5. Two companies produce identical total Free Cash Flows over 10 years , but Company A 
generates 90% of its Free Cash Flow in the first year and 10% over the remaining 9 years. 
Company B generates the same amount of Free Cash Flow every  year.  
Which company will have the higher Implied Value  in a DCF ? 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
143 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This is a trick question because it depends on what you count toward the Implied Value. If it’s 
just this series of cash flows, Company A will have the higher Implied Value because of the time 
value of money: the cash flows arrive earlier, so they’re worth more.  
However, Company B will almost certainly have a much higher Terminal Value because it has a 
much higher FCF in Year 10.  
So, if the Implied Value = PV of FCF s + PV of Terminal Value , Company B  will have the higher 
Implied Value.  
 
6. How do es the tax rate affect the Cost of Equity , Cost of Debt, WACC, and the Implied Value 
from a DCF?  
The tax rate affects the Cost of Equity , Cost of Debt, and WACC only if the company has Debt . If 
the company does not have Debt, or its targeted/optimal capital structure does not include 
Debt, the tax rate doesn’t matter because there’s no tax benefit from Debt in that case.  
If the company has some Debt, a higher tax rate will reduce  the Cost of Equity, Cost of Debt, 
and WACC.  
It’s easy to see why it reduces the Cost of Debt: since you multiply by (1 – Tax Rate), a higher 
tax rate reduces the after -tax cost.  
But it also reduces the Cost of Equity for the same reason: with a greater tax benefit,  Debt is 
less risky even to Equity investors. If both of these Costs are lower, WACC will also be lower.  
However , the Implied Value from a DCF  will also be lower  because the higher tax rate reduces 
the FCF and  the Terminal Value , and these changes outweigh a lower WACC.  
The opposite happens with a lower tax rate : the Cost of Equity, Cost of Debt, and WACC are all 
higher, and the Implied Value is also higher.  
Return to Top . 
 
Public Comps and Precedent Transactions  
This section is short because we covered many of these questions in the guide to Equity Value, 
Enterprise Value, and Valuation Multiples.  
Public Comps and Precedent Transactions relate to how you use valuation multiples in real life.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
144 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If you already understand what multiples mean and how to calculate them, you just need to 
understand the execution to answer these questions.  
 
1. Can you walk me through how you use Public Comps and Precedent Transactions  in a 
valuation ? 
First, you select the companies and transactions based on industry, size, and geo graphy (and 
time for the transactions).  
Then, you determine the appropriate metrics and mul tiples for each set – for example, 
revenue, revenue growth, EBITDA, EBITDA margins, and revenue and EBITDA multiples – and 
you calculate them for all the companies and transactions.  
Next, you calculate the minimum, 25th percentile, median, 75th percentile,  and maximum for 
each  valuation multiple in the set.  
Finally, you apply these  numbers to the financial metrics of the company you’re analyzing to 
estimate its Implied Value.  
For example, if the company you’re val uing has $100 million in LTM EBITDA, and the median 
LTM TEV / EBITDA multiple in a set of comparable companies is 7x, then the company’s implied 
Enterprise Value  is $700 million . 
You then calculate its Implied Value for all the other multiples to get a range of possible values.  
 
2. Why is it important to select Public Comps and Precedent Transactions that are similar?  
Because the comparable companies and transactions should have similar Discount Rates and 
Free Cash Flow figures  (in theory…).  
Remember that a company’s valuation multiples depend on its Free Cash Flow, Discount Rate, 
and Expected FCF Growth Rate.  
If the companies in your set all have similar Discount Rates  and F ree Cash Flows , it’s easier to 
conclude that one company trades at higher multiple s because  its expected growth rate is 
higher.  
If the companies do not have similar Discount Rates  and Free Cash Flows , it’s harder to draw 
meaningful conclusions.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
145 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In practice, it’s almost impossible to find multiple companies with “similar ” FCF figures, so this 
exercise is more important for getting similar Discount Rates.  
 
3. How do you select Comparable Public Compa nies and Precedent Transactions?  
You screen based on geography , industry , and size, and also time for Precedent Transactions.  
Here are a few example screens:  
• Comparable Company Screen:  U.S.-based steel manufacturing companies with over 
$500 million in revenue.  
 
• Comparable Company Screen:  European legacy airlines with over €1 billion in EBITDA.  
 
• Precedent Transaction Screen:  Latin American M&A transactions over the past 3 years 
involving consumer/retail sellers with over $1 billion USD  in revenue.  
 
• Precedent Transaction Screen:  Australian M&A transactions over the past 2 years 
involving infrastructure sellers with over $200 million AUD  in revenue.  
 
4. Are there any screens you should AVOID when selecting Comparable Compa nies and 
Precedent Transactions?  
You should not screen by both  financial metrics and Equity Value or Enterprise Value.  
For example, you should NOT  use this screen: “Companies with revenue below  $1 billion and 
Enterprise Values above $2 billion.”  
If you use that screen , you artificially constrain the multiples  because TEV / Revenue must be 
above 2x for every company in the set.  
 
5. Public Comps and Preced ent Transactions seem similar. W hat are the main differences?  
The idea is similar – you use Current  valuation multiples from similar companies or deals to 
value a company – but the exe cution is different.  
Here are the differences for Precedent Transactions:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
146 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Screening Criteria:  In addition to industry, size, and geography, you also use time  
because you only want transactions from a specific period, which could be the past few 
years or even as long as 10 -15 years ago . You might also use Transaction Size , and you 
may use broader screening criteria in general.  
 
• Metrics and Multiples:  You focus on historical metrics and multiples , especially LTM 
revenue and EBITDA , because it’s difficult to find projections as of the deal 
announcement date . 
 
• Calculations:  All the multiples are based  on the purchase price as of the announcement 
date of the deal . 
 
• Output:  The multiples produced tend to be higher than th ose from Public Comps 
because of the control premium . But the multiples also tend to span wider ranges 
because deals can be done  for many  different reasons.  
 
6. Can you walk me through the process of finding the market  and financial information for 
the Public Comps?  
You start by finding each company’s most recent annual and interim (quarterly or half -year) 
filing s. You calculate its diluted share count and Current Equity Value and Current Enterprise 
Value based on the information there and its most recent Balance Sheet.  
Then, you calculate its Last Twelve Months (LTM) financial metrics by taking the most recent 
annual results, adding the results from the most recent partial per iod, and subtracting the 
results from the same partial period the last year . 
For the projected figures, you look in equity research or find consensus figures on Bloomberg , 
Capital IQ, Finviz, Google/Yahoo, etc . And then , you calculate all the multiples by dividing 
Current Equity Value or Current Enterprise Value by the appropriate metric.  
 
7. Can you walk me through the process of finding the market  and financial information for 
the Precedent Transactions?  
You find the acquired company’s filings from just before  the deal was announced , and you 
calculate the LTM financial metrics using those.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
147 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
To calculate the company’s Transaction Equity Value and Enterprise Value, you use the 
purchase price the acquirer paid , and you move from Equity Value to Enterprise Value in the 
same way you usually do, using the company’s most recent Balance Sheet as of the 
announcement date.  
You calculate all the valuation multiples  the same way, using Transaction Equity Value or 
Transaction Enterprise Value as appropriate.  
 
8. How do you decide which metrics and multiples to use in these methodologies?  
You usually look at a sales -based metric and its corresponding multiple and 1 -2 profitability -
based metrics and their multiples. For example, you might use Revenue, EBITDA, and Net 
Income, and the corresponding multiples: TEV / Revenue, TEV / EBITDA, and P / E.  
You do this because you want to value a comp any in relation to  how much it sells and how 
much it keeps  of those sales.  
Sometimes, you’ll drop the sales -based multiples and focus on the profitab ility or cash flow -
based ones ( EBIT, EBITDA, Net Income, Free Cash Flow, etc.).  
 
9. Why do you look at BOTH historical and projected metrics and multiples in these 
methodologies?  
Historical metrics are useful because they ’re based  on what happened  in real life , but they can 
also be deceptive if there were non -recurring items or if the company made acquisitions or 
divestitures.  
Projected metrics are useful because they assume the company will operate in a “steady state,” 
without acquisitions , divestitures, or non-recurring items, but they’re also less reliable because 
they ’re based  on future predictions . 
 
10. When you calculate  the forward multiples for the comparable companies, should you use 
each company’s Current Equity Value or Current Enterprise Value, or should you project them 
to get the Year 1 or Year 2 values?  
You always use the Current Equity Val ue or Current Enterprise Va lue. NEVER “project” either 
one.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
148 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A company’s share price, and, therefore, both of these  metrics , reflects past performance and 
future expectations.  
So, to “project” these metrics, you’d have to jump into the future and see what future 
expectations are at that  point  in the future and then jump back to the present.  
 
11. What should you do if some companies in your set of Public Comps have fiscal years that 
end on June 30th and others have fiscal years that end on December 31st? 
You ha ve to “calendarize” by adjusting the companies’ fiscal years so that they match up.  
For example, to make everything match a December 31st year -end date, you take each 
company with  a June 30th fiscal -year  end a nd do the following:  
• Start with the company’s full June 30th fiscal -year results . 
• Add the June 30th – December 31st results from this year.  
• Subtract the June 30th – December 31st results from the previous  year.  
Normally,  you calendarize to match the fiscal year  of the company you’re valuing.  
But you might pick another date if, for example, all the comparable companies have December 
31st fiscal years but your company’s ends on June 30th. 
 
12. How do you interpret the Public Comps? What does it mean if the median multiples are 
above or below the ones of the company you’re valuing?  
The interpretation de pends on how the growth rates and margins of your company compare to 
those of the comparable companies.  
Public Comps are most meaningful when the growth rates and margins  are similar , but the 
multiples are different . This could  mean that the company you’re valuing is mispriced  and that 
there’s an opportunity to invest and make money.  
For example, maybe all the comp anies are growing their revenues  at 10 -15% and their EBITDA 
at 15 -20%, and they all have EBITDA margins of 10 -15%. Your company also has growth rates 
and margins in these ranges.  
However, your company trades at TEV / EBITDA multiples of 6 x to 8x, while the comparable 
companies  all trade at multiples of 10x to 12x.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
149 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This result could indicate that your company is undervalued  since its multiples are lower , but its 
growth rates, margins, industry, and size are comparable.  
If the growth rates and margins are very different, it’s harder to draw conclusions . 
 
13. Is it valid to include both announced and closed deals in your set of Precedent 
Transactions?  
Yes, because Precedent Transactions reflect overall market activity . Even if a deal hasn’t closed 
yet, the simple announcement  of the deal reflects what one company believes another is worth.  
Note that you base all the metrics and multiples on the financial information as of the 
announcement dates . 
 
14. Why do Precedent Transactions often result in more “random” data than Public Comps?  
The problem is that the circumstances surrounding each deal might be very different . 
For example, one company might have sold itself because it was distressed and about to enter 
bankruptcy  – but another company might have sold itself because the acquirer d esperately 
needed it and was willing to pay a high price.  
Some deals are competitive and include multiple acquirers bidding against each other, while 
others are targeted and involve no auction processes.  
 
15. How do you factor in earn -outs and expected synergies in Precedent Transactions?  
You generally don’t factor in expected synergies because they’re quite speculative.  If you do 
include them, you might increase  the sellers’ projected revenue or EBITDA figures so that the 
valuation multiples end up being lower  – assuming that you’re using projected metrics.  
Opinions differ about earn -outs, but you could assume they have a 50% chance of being paid 
out, multiply the earn -out amounts by 50%, and add them to the purchase price s. 
Other people ignore earn -outs or add the full earn -out amounts to the Purchase Equity Value 
and Purchase Enterprise Value.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
150 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
16. Are there any rules about filtering out deals for less than 100% of companies or about 
stock vs. cash deals in P recedent Transactions?  
Ideally, your set of Precedent Transactions will include only  100% acquisition deals.  
However, you may need to go beyond that and also include majority -stake deals  (ones where 
the acquirer buys more than 50% but less than 100% of the seller).  
You can include those because the dynamics are similar , but you should not include minority -
stake  deals because acquiring 10% or 20% of a company is quite different.  
Stock vs. cash consideration affects buyers’ willingness to pay in M&A deals, but you typically 
include all deals regardless of the form of consideration.  However, you may note whether each 
deal was cash, stock, or a mix of both.  
 
17. If there’s a Precedent Transaction where the buyer acquired 80 % of the seller, how do you 
calculate the  valuation  multiples?  
The multiples are always based  on 100%  of the seller’s value.  
So, if the acquirer purchased 80% of the seller  for $500 million, the Purchase Equity Value 
would be $500 million / 80% = $625 million. And then , you would calculate the Purchase 
Enterprise Value based on that figure  and 100% of the usual Balance Sheet line items.  
You would then calculate the valuation multiples based on those figures and the financial stats 
for 100% of the seller.  
 
18. Why do you use median multiples rather than average multiples or other percentiles?  
Median multiples are better than average multiples because of outliers . 
If there are 5 companies in your set  with  multiples of 8x, 10x, 9x, 8x, and 25x, you don’t want 
the 25x multiple to push up the average when it’s clearly an outlier.  
However, there’s no “rule” t hat you have to use the median  rather than other percentiles, so 
you could make an argument for using the 25th percentile or 75th percentile . 
For example, you could argue that your company’s growth rates and margins are in -line with 
those of companies in the 75th percentile of your set and that the 75th percentile multiples are, 
therefore, most applicable to your company.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
151 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Return to Top . 
 
Other Valuation Methodologies  
These questions are unlikely to come up unless you have significant work experience.  
If they do come up, they’ll most likely be in the form of straightforward questions about the 
setup of different analyses and the advantages and disadvantages of each one.  
 
1. What is a Liquidation Valuation, and when is it useful and not so useful?  
In a Liquidation Valuation, you value a company by determining  the market values of all its 
Assets, adding them up, and subtracting its Liabilities  (i.e., full repayment of all Liabilities).  
It gives you the company’s Implied Equity Value  because you’re valuing the company’s Net 
Assets , not its Net Operating Assets.  
This methodology is useful for distressed companies because it tells you how much they might 
be worth if they liquidate  and shut down  and how much different lender groups might receive.  
It’s less useful for healthy, growing companies because it tends to undervalue them 
significantly; assets like Net PP&E are always worth more to “going concern” companies.  
 
2. How does a Dividend Discount Model (DDM) differ from a DCF?  
In a DDM, rather than projecting Free Cash Flow, you project the company’s Dividends , usually 
based on a per -share figure or a percentage of Net Income. You then discount the Dividends to 
their Present Value using the Cost of Equity and add them up.  
To cal culate the Terminal Value, you use an Equity Value -based multiple such as P / E, and you 
discount it to its Present Value using the Cost of Equity.  
You add the PV of the Terminal Value to the PV of Dividends o calculate the company’s Implied 
Equity Value a t the end rather than its Implied Enterprise Value  – there’s no “bridge” – and you 
divide it by the diluted share count to get the company’s Implied Share Price.  
The DDM i s essential in some industries, such as commercial banks and insurance, useful for 
other industr ies that pay regular dividends, such as REITs, utilities, and some MLPs, and not so 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
152 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
useful for most others  because it takes more time and effort to set up and tends to undervalue 
companies that do not distribute high percentages of their cash flows.  
 
3. Why might you use an M&A Premiums analysis  to value a company ? 
The M&A Premiums analysis applies only to public companies  because you look at acquisitions 
of similar public companies and calculate the “premium” each buyer paid for each seller.  
For example, if the seller’s share price was $12.00 before the deal, and the buyer paid $15.00 
per share, that represents a 25% premi um. 
You then use these percentage s to value your company. If the median premium in a set of deals 
is 20%, and your company’s share price is $10.00, it’s worth $12.00 per share.  
This analysis is typically a supplement to Precedent Transactions and gives you  another way to 
value your company besides just the standard multiples. But it’s also a bit limited because M&A 
Premiums cannot indicate that a company is currently undervalued . 
 
4. How do you build a Future Share Price Analysis ? When is it useful?  
The idea is to project a company’s stock -price appreciation and its Dividends between today 
and some future date , discount them to Present Value, and add them up ( since these are the 
two “returns sources” if you buy a company’s shares ). 
The Dividend projections are based on Net Income or per -share figures; to project a company’s 
future stock price, you normally take the company’s current NTM multiple, the median from 
the comps, or something similar, and apply it to a future  figur e, such as its EBITDA in Year 3.  
You then back into the future Implied Equity Value based on this future Implied Enterprise 
Value and divide by the share count on that date to get the “future share price ,” which you 
discount to PV using the Cost of Equity. You then compare this to the current share price.  
This analysis adds little over traditional Public Comps, but it can be useful if a company wants to 
assess the valuation impact of changing its capital structure or Dividend policy.  
 
5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of a Sum -of-the-Parts Valuation ? 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
153 of 153 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Sum-of-the-Parts  methodology , in which you value each division of a company separately 
and add them up to determine the company’s Implied V alue, works well for conglomerates that 
have very  different divisions  (e.g., retail vs. transportation vs. digital media).  
The divisions operate in such dif ferent industries that it would be meaningless to value the 
company as a whole – no other public company would be comparable.  
But Sum of the Parts also takes far more time and effort to set up because you have to find 
comparable companies and transactions for each division , build a separate DCF for each 
division, and so on.  
Also, you may not have enough information to use it; com panies sometimes don’t disclose EBIT , 
CapEx , or Working Capital by division , and they may not disclose  the corporate overhead 
expenses that you must factor in at the end of the analysis.  
 
6. How do you set up an LBO valuation, and when is it useful?  
You set up the LBO valuation by creating a leveraged buyout model in which a private equity 
firm acquires a company using Debt and Equity, holds it for several years, and then sells it for a 
certain multiple of EBITDA.  
Most private equity firms target an internal rate of return (IRR) in a specific range, so you work 
backward  and determine the maximum price  the PE firm could pay to achieve a targeted IRR. 
You could use the “Goal Seek” function in Excel to do this, and you solve for the purchase price 
based on constraints for the IRR, exit multiple, and Debt / Equity split.  
This methodology is most useful as a way to screen LBO candidates and see which ones might 
warrant further attention; it can also be useful for helpi ng a company compare its options and 
see what different types of acquirers (e.g., PE firm s vs. normal compan ies) might pay.  
Return to Top . 