 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Core Financial Modeling, Module s 9 – 10: M&A Deals and Merger 
Models  
Table of Contents:  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  ........................................................................................ 2  
Key Rule #1: Why Buy Another Company? ..................................................................... 3  
Key Rule #2: Mechanics of EPS Accretion/Dilution  ........................................................ 8  
Step 1: Get the Financial Stats for the Buyer and Seller  .......................................................... 8  
Step 2: Determine the Purchase Price and Cash/Debt/Stock Mix  ........................................... 9  
Step 3: Combine the Pre- Tax Incomes and Adjust for the Acquisition Effects  ...................... 14 
Step 4: Calculate the Combined Net Income and EPS  ........................................................... 16 
Step 5: Calculate the EPS Accretion/Dilution and Draw Conclusions  .................................... 16 
Key Rule #3: The Purchase Price and Cash/Debt/Stock Mix ......................................... 18 
Key Rule #4: The “True Purchase Price” in M&A Deals  ................................................ 23 
Key Rule #5: Cash -Free, Debt -Free Deals ...................................................................... 27 
Key Rule #6: How Equity Value and Enterprise Value Change in M&A Deals  .............. 31 
Key Rule #7: Full Merger Model Walkthrough  ............................................................. 35 
1) Project the Financial Statements of the Buyer and Seller  ................................................. 36 
2) Estimate the Purchase Price and Deal Financing  ............................................................... 37 
3) Create a Sources & Uses Schedule and Purchase Price Allocation Schedule  .................... 39 
4) Combine the Balance Sheets of the Buyer and Seller ....................................................... 42 
5) Calculate the Synergies  ...................................................................................................... 44 
6) Combine the Income Statements of the Buyer and Seller  ................................................ 46 
7) Calculate Cash Flow, Debt Repayment, and Key Metrics and Ratios  ................................ 48 
8) Create Sensitivity Tables  .................................................................................................... 50 
Key Rule #8: M&A Valuation, Value Creation, and the Contribution Analysis  ............. 51 
Qualitative / “Strategic” Analysis  ........................................................................................... 51 
M&A Valuation  ...................................................................................................................... 52 
IRR vs. Discount Rate (WACC) ................................................................................................ 54 
Relative Contribution Analysis  ............................................................................................... 55 
Value Creation Analysis  ......................................................................................................... 58 
Interview Questions  .......................................................................................................... 62 
M&A Concepts and Overview  ....................................................................................... 62 
Accretion/Dilution Calculations  .................................................................................... 71 
Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and Multiples in M&A Deals  ...................................... 76 
Full Merger Model Mechanics  ...................................................................................... 81 
 
  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb 
M&A deals and merger models are likely topics in finance interviews, but they’re less important  
than accounting, valuation, and DCF analysis for several reasons:  
1. Mergers and acquisitions are not relevant for all groups . For example, you don’t work 
on M&A deals in the debt capital markets (DCM) or equi ty capital markets (ECM) groups 
in investment banking.  
 
2. They’re also less important in roles  like equity research and hedge funds, where you 
follow public companies and make investment recommendations.  
 
3. They’re more advanced  than the other topics , so they’re less likely to be the subject of 
interview questions.  
You’ll get at least a few  questions about M&A deals if you interview for investment banking 
roles, but advanced questions are unlikely unless you have significant work experience.  
Basic M&A analysis is simple  – for example, it’s easier to explain than 3 -statement projection 
models . 
But the interview questions can be quite tricky since many candidates memorize questions and 
answers without understanding the underlying concepts . 
We start this guide by describing why  one company might want to buy another company, and 
then we move on to  simple examples of merger models so you can learn the building blocks.  
Then, we walk through a full merger model for real companies  and other ways to evaluate deals 
besides the traditional EPS accretion/dilution analysis.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule #1: Why Buy Another Company?  
A company might buy another company if it thinks that company is worth more  than the price 
it’s paying.  
So, maybe the Target’s asking price is $100, but the Acquirer thinks it’s worth $120 or $150 
based on its future cash flows.  
Or maybe the Acquirer has a targeted rate of return of 10% on all its deals, and it thinks it can 
earn 15% per year by purchasing the Target.  
Since the expected annualized return exceeds its targeted return, the deal works.  
These rules based on cash flows and valuations make sense theoretically, but something else 
enters the equation in real life : Earnings per Share (EPS) . 
A company’s shareholders and Board of Directors  care a lot  about metrics such as Net Income 
and EPS – and how acquisitions might affect them.  
These metrics differ  from “cash flow,” but many stocks still trade in the short term based on 
Net Income and EPS changes . 
EPS is also important because it reflects all the effects of an acquisition: Foregone interest on 
cash, interest paid on new debt, and the new shares issued to fund the deal.  
So, if a company announces an acquisition that will “boost its long -term cash flows,” but it will 
also take a huge EPS hit next year, the market tends to react poorly.  
Therefore, companies prefer acquisitions that are accretive to EPS; in other words, acquisitions 
that increase  their EPS.  
For example, if a company expects  to earn $2.00 per share next year, an EPS- accretive deal 
might boost its EPS to $2.10 or $2.50.  
A deal that’s dilutive to EPS  might reduce its EPS to $1.50  or $1.80. 
These are the two most important financial criteria  for deals: T he price paid for the Target 
must be reasonable, and the deal should be neutral or accretive to EPS.  
But i n real life, no company decides  to make a major acquisition based solely on valuation and 
EPS; they’re more like screening tools or supporting data.  
Common motivation  to do deals include:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Consolidation / Economies of Scale:  If the biggest and second biggest  companies in the 
market combine, they can get better deals with suppliers and save money.  Or they can 
consolidate departments like accounting and HR, lay off employees, and save money.  
 
• Geographic Expansion:  The B uyer operates mostly in Europe, which is a 
declining/mature market . It wants to acquire the Seller to expand into Asia and grow 
more quickly.  
 
• Gain Market Share:  Neither the Buyer nor the S eller is  growing because the market is 
competitive and highly fragmented, and different companies’ products are similar. But if 
the Buyer acquires the Seller, it instantly captures market share . 
 
• Acquire Customers or Distribution Channels:  One company could sell more widgets if it 
had access to another company’s customers , partners , and sales force . 
 
• Product Expansion or Diversification:  The A cquirer’s core industry is declining, but it 
could grow more quickly by purchasing a company in a higher -growth industry . 
 
• Intellectual Property : The A cquirer wants a cool, shiny thing that the Target has. It can’t 
determine how much revenue, profit, or cash flow this shiny thing will produce …. but 
it’s shiny!  
 
• Defensive Acquisition:  The A cquirer is afraid of a high -growth  competitor, so it acquires 
the competitor to prevent the disruption of its main business.  
 
• Acqui -Hire:  Recruiting top- notch employees is expensive. Why not shortcut the whole 
process by buying an entire  smaller company and hiring everyone like that?  
 
• Office Politics, Ego, and Pride:  Let’s buy this company to become bigger and better! 
Also, one executive can use it to win a promotion and beat out rivals for a job.  
The process  of acquiring another company is complicated and can take several months to 
several years to complete.  
If you’re an investment banker advising a company that wants to sell , here’s a summary of the 
most common steps in the process:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
In a buy -side M&A deal , where your bank is helping one company buy  another one, the process 
is similar, but it’s more about finding companies to acquire.  
Therefore, Step 1 is more about researching the market , finding the best acquisition targets , 
and estimating their prices.  
In Step 2, you’ll contact  this initial set of potential Sellers, gauge their interest in selling, and 
collect information from them.  
Steps 3 – 5 proceed as described above, but you’re representing the other party  – so you help 
the Buyer assess the information that S ellers send and ask follow -up questions . 
And then, you help the B uyer arrange financing  and negotiate the deal's final terms . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
How to Finance Acquisitions  
A company can fund its operations with Debt and Equity, and it can also use Debt and Equity to 
acquire other companies . 
If the company has Excess Cash on its Balance Sheet, it can also use that Cash for acquisitions . 
In a valuation, Debt is cheaper than Equity , and it’s the same in M&A deals : Companies prefer 
to fund acquisitions with Debt because it’s cheaper than Equity.  
However, if the company has E xcess Cash , it almost always prefers to use it first because Cash is 
cheaper than Debt. 
Using Cash or Debt to pay for another company is straightforward : Record the Cash reduction 
or Debt increase and the reduced Interest Income or increased Interest Expense afterward.  
Equity  is a bit different because the B uyer can use two methods:  
1) It can issue new shares to OTHER investors , collect cash from those investors, an d use 
that cash to pay for the S eller.  
 
2) Or it can issue shares directly TO the S eller ’s shareholders  in exchange for their shares.  
The financial modeling works the same way r egardless of the method used: The Seller’s shares 
disappear since it’s no longer an independent entity , and the Buyer’s shares increase . 
These additional shares cost the B uyer because t hey dilute  its existing investors.  
For example, i f a shareholder previously owned 11% of the company, it might own only 8% or 
9% after the company uses Stock to fund an acquisition.  
As a result, the investor’s stake in the company decreased , even though the investor didn’t 
sell any of their stake . 
Here’s a summary of the different financing methods in M&A deals : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Mergers vs. Acquisitions  
No mechanical difference exists  between a “merger” and an “acquisition.” The only difference 
is that the Buyer and S eller tend t o be closer in size in a merger, while the Buyer tends to be 
much bigger in an acquisition.  
If the companies are about the same size, the Buyer is unlikely to have enough Cash or Debt 
capacity to acquire the Seller through one of those.  
So, 100% Stock or 50%+ Stock structures are far more common in mergers.  
The ownership split is typically a major negotiating point , so the Contribution Analysis  is 
critically important in mergers.  
Return to Top . 
 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule #2: Mechanics of EPS Accretion/Dilution  
To assess the financial impact of an M&A deal, you create a merger model  in Excel that : 
• Summarizes  the financial profiles of the Buyer and Seller, including projections and each 
company’s Equity Value and Enterprise Value.  
 
• Lists the purchase price , or the amount the B uyer plans  to pay for the S eller, and the 
mix of Cash, Debt, and Stock the B uyer will use.  
 
• Includes other key terms  of the deal, such as the interest rates on Cash and Debt and 
estimates for S ynergies  – ways to boost combined revenue or reduce costs.  
 
• Shows what the Buyer and S eller look like as a combined entity  and how the combined 
EPS compares with the B uyer’s standalone EPS.  
Merger models  focus on EPS because it’s the only easy -to-calculate metric that captures the 
deal’s FULL impact.   
Metrics such as EBITDA and NOPAT do not capture the deal's full financial impact because they 
are before  Interest Income and Interest Expense and  do not reflect the share count.  
The only other metrics that capture the FULL impact of the deal are  Free Cash Flow per Share 
and Levered Free Cash Flow per Share , and these are not ideal because they are more complex 
to calculate, and their components vary widely in different industries . 
Here’s the step -by-step process for building a simple  EPS accretion/dilution analysis, otherwise 
known as a merger model:  
Step 1: Get the Financial Stats for the Buyer and Seller  
At the minimum, you need each company’s Current Equity Value  and Net Income , along with 
everything that goes into those calculations : The Current Share Price, Shares Outstanding, Pre -
Tax Income, and Tax Rate.  
Here are the assumptions  for our very cr eatively named “Companies A and B”:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
  
Step 2: Determine the Purchase Price and Cash/Debt/Stock Mix  
In any M&A deal with a public seller, the Buyer must pay a control premium  to do the deal.  
So, if the Seller’s share price is currently $5.00, the Buyer might pay $6.00 per share, 
representing  a 20% premium.  
A Buyer pay s this control premium because it must incentivize large institutional shareholders 
to sell their shares  – if it offered no premium, they would have no reason to sell  everything.  
In real life, you would also value the Seller (Company B) with a DCF and comparable companies/ transactions  to cross -check this premium assumption.  
Here’s our setup  for the Equity Purchase Price, also known as the Purchase Equity Value:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Purchase Equity Value  here is $600 million because $ 6.00 per share  * 100 million shares = 
$600 million . 
For private companies, th e Purchase Price may be based on a multiple of EBITDA, Revenue, or 
another financial metric rather than a premium to the company’s current share price.  
Next , you estimate how much of this $600 million Purchase Equity Value can be funded  with 
Cash, Debt, and Stock.  
“But wait!” you say, “Shouldn’t we use the Purchase Enterprise Value for this calculation 
instead? Enterprise Value is the true cost of acquiring the company!”  
Yes, the Purchase Enterprise Value better represents the true acquisition price . 
But in most M&A deals, the Seller’s existing Debt is refinanced and replaced with the same 
amount of new Debt, and items like the Unfunded Pensions and Noncontrolling Interests do not change . 
So, although  the Buyer pays the Purchase Enterprise Value , the Purchase Equity Value portion 
makes the biggest net impact  on the combined financial statements.  
There may be additional adjustments based on the fees and the treatment of the Seller’s Cash, but in simple models, the Purchase Equity Value is always the starting point.  
In this ex ample, we assume  that the Seller’s Cash = the Seller’s Debt , so Purchase Equity Value = 
Purchase Enterprise Value.  
Once you have the Purchase Price, you estimate the percentages of Cash, Debt, and Stock used 
to fund the deal.  
You start by using as much of the Buyer’s Cash balance as possible  because it is the cheapest 
financing method  in most cases.  
Then, if you still need additional funding, you may assume a reasonable amount of Debt.  
For example, maybe the Buyer has Debt of $300 million and EBITDA of $100 million for a Debt / 
EBITDA ratio of 3x.  
Similar companies have Debt / EBITDA ratios between 4x and 5x, so it’s reasonable for the 
Buyer to raise an additional $200 million in  Debt, taking it to 5x Debt / EBITDA.  
It might even be able to use more Debt if the Seller also has significant EBITDA. 
If you still need more funding after that, you move to Stock . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
There are no technical limits on the amount of Stock a Buyer can issue, but most companies 
don’t want to give up majority ownership just to acquire another company . 
In other cases, companies will issue Stock only up to the level at which a deal remains accretive.  
We assumed a mix of 1/3 Cash, 1/3 Debt, and 1/3 Stock in this simple example . 
We didn’t perform the checks described above but instead assumed that these percentages 
represented reasonable amounts of Cash, Debt, and Stock for the Buyer.  
Once you have that, you can lay out the Cash, Debt, and Stock side-by-side, along with the Cost  
of each method:  
 
The Cost of Debt is like the Cost of D ebt in the WACC calculation: I t’s the coupon rate the 
company would have to pay if it issued additional  Debt today.  
You could estimate it by calculating the YTM of the Buyer’s Debt  or peer companies’ Debt or by 
taking the Buyer’s average interest rate and assuming a slight premium (due to the added risk 
from the acquisition).  
The Cost of Cash is based  on the interest rate the company currently earns  on its Cash balance, 
which tends to be low (close to the current Risk -Free Rate).  
The Cost of Equity is based  on Buyer ’s Net Income / Buyer ’s Equity Value , or the reciprocal  of 
the B uyer’s P / E multiple.  
Yes, that’s different from the Cost of Equity in the WACC calculation.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It’s different because you are looking at the Cost of  Equity in terms of  its impact on the 
company’s EPS , not the company’s overall Discount Rate  (WACC).  
In most cases, t his method still produces Cost of Equity figures that are higher than the After -
Tax Costs of Debt and Cash.  
With all the Costs set up, you can calculate the Weighted Cost of Acquisition:  
• Weighted Cost of Acquisition  = % Cash Used * After -Tax Cost of Cash + % Debt Used * 
After -Tax Cost of Debt + % Stock Used * After -Tax Cost of Stock  
This Weighted Cost tells you how much the Buyer is “giving up ” to acquire the Seller.  
You can also calculate Company B’s Yield  at this 20% premium.  
Its Yield equals its Net Income divided by the Purchase Equity Value , or $30 million / $600 
million = 5.0% here.  
This “Yield” is how much Company A gets in Net Income for each $1.00 it spen ds to acquire 
Company B . 
You can compare the Weighted Cost of Acquisition to the Seller’s Yield to determine if the 
deal will be accretive or dilutive.  
Here’s how we calculated the Weighted Cost:  
 
EPS accretion/dilution follows these rules:  
• Weighted Cost of Acquisition < Yield of Seller: Accretive  
• Weighted Cost of Acquisition = Yield of Seller: Neutral  
• Weighted Cost of Acquisition > Yield of Seller:  Dilutive  
In this case, the Weight ed Cost of Acquisition is 5.6%, and Company B’s Yield is 5.0%.  
Company A pays  more  than Company B ’s yield , which makes the deal dilutive . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the Pre -Tax Cost of Debt decreased to 3.0%, making the Weighted Cost of Acquisition 4.8 %, 
the deal would turn accretive:  
 
There’s also a special rule for 100% S tock  deals : You can compare the P / E multiples of the 
Buyer and Seller at the Seller’s Purchase Equity Value  to see if the deal is accretive or dilutive.  
• 100% Stock Deal, Buyer’s P / E > Seller’s P / E at Purchase Price: Accretive  
• 100% Stock Deal, Buyer’s P / E = Seller’s P / E at Purchase Price: Neutral  
• 100% Stock Deal, Buyer’s P / E < Seller’s P / E at Purchase Price: Dilutive  
In a 100% Stock deal , the Cost of Acquis ition is the reciprocal of the B uyer’s P / E multiple.  
So, if the Buyer’s P / E is 10x , and the S eller’s Purchase P / E is 5x, then the B uyer’s Weighted 
Cost of Acquisition is 1 / 10, or 10%, and the S eller’ s Yield is 1 / 5, or 20%.  
The B uyer pays less than the S eller ’s yield , so the deal will boost its EPS.  
But if the Buyer’s P / E were 1 0x and the S eller’s Purchase P / E were 20x, the B uyer’s Weighted 
Cost  would be 1  / 10, or 10%, and the Seller’s Yield would be 1  / 20, or 5%. 
The B uyer pays  more  than the S eller’s yield , so the deal will reduce its EPS.  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Step 3: Combine the Pre-Tax Incomes and Adjust for the Acquisition Effects  
Once you put all the assumptions in place, you add together  the Pre -Tax Incomes of the Buyer 
and S eller and factor in the acquisition effects : 
• Debt:  If the Buyer uses Debt, it will have to pay Interest Expense on that Debt in the 
future, which will reduce its Pre -Tax Income, Net Income, and EPS.  
 
• Stock:  If the Buyer uses Stock, it will have additional shares outstanding in the future, 
reducing  its EPS.  
 
• Cash:  If the Buyer uses Cash, it will give up future  Interest Income, reducing  its Pre -Tax 
Income, Net Income, and EPS.  This is  called the “Foregone Interest on Cash.” 
The Foregone Interest on Cash is a true cash cost because you add the companies’ projected 
Pre-Tax Incomes, including  the projected Interest Income earned on Cash . 
Let’s say the B uyer has $180 in projected Operating Income and $20 in projected Interest 
Income, and the S eller has $100 in projected Pre-Tax Income.  
If the B uyer uses Cash to fund the deal and earns $10 less in Interest Income as a result , you 
must subtract this $10 in Foregone Interest from the Combined Pre -Tax Income.  
In other words, due to the Foregone Interest Income, the Combined Pre -Tax Income is $180 + 
$10 + $100 = $290, not  $180 + $20 + $100 = $300!  
Before you combine the Pre-Tax Incomes and factor in th e acquisition effects, you can set up 
the analysis to show the accretion/dilution at different purchase prices:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Then,  you can combine the Pre -Tax Incomes and factor in the acquisition effects:  
 
You calculate “Company A Shares Issued” with (Purchase Equity Value * % Stock) / Company A ’s 
Share Price.  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Step 4: Calculate the Combined Net Income and EPS  
Next, you multiply the Combined Pre -Tax Income by (1 – Buyer’s Tax Rate) to calculate the 
Combined Net Income.  
Then, you add the Shares Issued in the deal to the B uyer’s existing share count to get the Total 
Shares Outstanding.  
The Seller’s shares go away because it no longer exists as an independent entity –  Company A 
has acquired all of Company B’s shares , removing them from the market.  
You then divide the Combined Net Income by the Total Shares Outstanding to determine the 
Combined EPS:  
 
In real life, this step may be more complicated; for example, the new Tax Rate might not be the 
Buyer’s Tax Rate if you’re modeling complex multinational corporations.  
Also, the Buyer’s Share Price often change s after the deal is announced, which will affect the 
Shares Issued in the deal.  
But these assumptions are fine for case studies, modeling tests, and interview questions . 
Step 5: Calculate the EPS Accretion/Dilution and Draw Conclusions  
In the final step, you calculate EPS accretion/dilution  by comparing the  Combined EPS to the 
Buyer’s Standalone EPS from before the deal took place:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
If the Combined EPS is higher  than the Buyer’s Standalone EPS , the deal is accretive; if the 
Combined EPS is lower, the deal is dilutive ; and if it’s the same, it  is neutral . 
Once you have these results, you can use the analysis in a few ways:  
1. Deal Screening  – You might set up simple models like the one above to screen for 
potential acquisitions that make sense for your client. This simple analysis doesn’t tell 
you the whole story, but it can serve as a quick “sanity check.”  
 
2. Pitching Ideas to Clients  – You might use this analysis to pitch potential buy -side or sell -
side M&A deals to clients (e.g., “Consider a sale to this Buyer because the  deal would be 
highly accretive for them”).  
 
3. Deal Negotiations  – As a deal progresses, you might use the output from a merger 
model to push for a higher price or superior deal terms. For  example, you might tell  the 
Buyer, “Our client (the S eller) is willing to accept more in Stock and less in Cash if you 
raise the price by 5%; even at that level, the deal is accretive for you.”  
Companies never “decide” to do deals based on merger model s. 
They’re supporting tools , like witness es or expert testimony in a courtroom trial.  
Also, dozens of factors make deal analysis more complicated for real companies.  
For example, the purchase price calculations can be more complicated, synergies  (ways to cut 
the combined company’s costs or increase its combined revenue) can distort the EPS figures, 
and acquisition effects related to asset write -ups can shift the EPS numbers.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Also, EPS is not always a meaningful metric (private companies care much less about it), Net 
Income and “ future cash flows” are very different , and merger models do not capture the full 
risks of deals or the qualitative factors required for success . 
For all these reasons, real -life deal analysis goes beyond simple EPS accretion/dilution , and 
merger models are just the starting point.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule #3 : The Purchase Price and Cash/Debt/Stock Mix  
If the Seller is public, the Buyer must pay a premium to its current share price or average price 
over the past month, quarter, or year . Otherwise, existing shareholders have no incentive to 
sell all their shares.  
For example, let’s say that Company B has a Current Share Price of $33.00, a Current Equity 
Value of $825 million, and a Current Enterprise Value (TEV) of $1.025 billion.  
The valuation methodologies say that the company’s I mplied Share Price is between $35.00 and 
$45.00. 
The p remiums paid for companies in this market have been between 15% and 30% over the 
past ~3 years.  
Therefore, an O ffer Price in this range of ~$38.00 (15% premium) to ~$43.00 (30% premium) 
might be reasonable.  
However, if the valuation methodologies said  that the company's Implied Share Price were only 
$20.00 to $30.00, that would be irrelevant.  
The Acquirer can’t approach the Target and say, “Please sell to us for less than your C urrent 
Share Price – you’re overvalued right now.”  
The Acquirer still  must pay a premium – more than $33.00 per share – to do this deal.  
Since all deals with public Sellers include control premiums, assessing the potential Synergies  is 
extremely important.  
If they’re high enough, these S ynergies + the Seller’s Implied Value may still exceed the 
Purchase Price, justifying the deal financially.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if the Seller is worth $800 million based on the valuation methodologies, but the 
Buyer must pay $1 billion due to the control premium, does the deal work?  
It depends on how much the Synergies  are worth. If their Present Value is higher than $200 
million, the deal could work if it’s executed properly and integration goes smoothly.  
For private companies , the purchase price is not based on a share -price premium but on 
Revenue, EBITDA, or P / E multiples and the valuation  methodologies.  
For example, if similar companies in this market have been acquired at multiples of 8  – 12x 
EBITDA, a 10x TEV / EBITDA multiple might be appropriate for the Seller.  
You then back into the Purchase Equity Value based on the Purchase Enterprise Value implied 
by this multiple . 
In a simple model, it’s acceptable to make the Cash, Debt, and Stock fixed percentages  of the 
deal funding, such as 20%, 50%, and 30%.  
But Acquirers  almost always prefer  to use  the cheapest  purchase method  first, which is 
usually Cash.  
If the Acquirer gives up only 2 – 4% interest on its Cash balance, almost any 100% Cash M&A 
deal look s accretive . 
Once the Acquirer has used all the Cash it can, it will switch to Debt, the next cheapest acquisition method, up to a certain level, and then it will use Stock for anything past that.  
The Cash Limit  is usually based on the "Minimum Cash balance" the company needs to keep its 
operations running . 
Depending on the Acquirer and Target’s sizes , this M inimum Cash could be based on just the 
Acquirer’s Cash balance or the Acquirer’s Cash + Target’s Cash.  
The Debt Limit  is usually based on a maximum Debt / EBITDA or Debt / Total Capital.  
For example, maybe the combined company wants to maintain an "investment grade" credit rating, so it aims to stay below 3x Debt / EBITDA.  
The Stock Limit  is murkier because a company could potentially issue  an unlimited amount of 
new Stock… but most companies  do not want to do that.  
Generally, Acquirers want to maintain control  of the combined entity . 
For example, if the Acquirer is worth $1 billion, and the Target is worth $1.2 billion, the Acquirer would not want to issue $1.2 billion of Stock to buy the Target.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It would own less than 50% of the combined entity if it did that.  
Instead, it would use as much Cash and Debt as possible  and switch to Stock for the remaining 
portion.  
This limit could also be based on EPS accretion/dilution; for example, if the deal turns dilutive 
with over $500 million of new Stock  issued, that might be the limit.  
Here are a few examples of how to determine these “limits” in a simple merger model:  
 
Once you have the Maximum Cash Available , you move to the Maximum New Debt Available, 
which is based on a Maximum Combined Debt / EBITDA of 3.0x:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
These are just the “maximum amounts available .” To determine the Cash and Debt to use , you 
use MIN functions to compare these maximums  to the Purchase Equity Value : 
 
You can also use this analysis to estimate the biggest possible deal  an Acquirer could execute . 
For example, let’s say the Acquirer has the following profile:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Current Equity Value:  $500 million  
• Cash:  $200 million; Minimum Cash:  $50 million  
• Debt:  $100 million  
• EBITDA:  $33 million  
• Debt / EBITDA:  3.0x 
• Debt / EBITDA for Comparable Companies:  5.0x 
Without knowing anything about the potential Target , you can already tell a few things : 
• Cash:  The Acquirer could use a maximum  of $150 million in Cash in any deal.  This 
amount increase s if the Target also has Excess Cash.  
 
• Debt:  The Acquirer could raise ~ $65 million  of additional Debt since $165 million of total 
Debt would make its Debt / EBITDA equal 5.0x. But this amount could change if the 
Target contributes significant EBITDA and /or has some  Debt.  
 
• Stock:  It would be very  unusual for this company to issue  more than $500 million in 
Stock  in any deal. Existing shareholders would lose control at that level , and the chances 
of dilution would increase substantially.  
So, could this Acquirer purchase a Target for $400 million?  
Sure – it would likely use $150 million of Cash, $65 to $100 million of Debt ( depending on the 
acquired company’s EBITDA ), and Stock for $150 to $185 million.  
If we had to estimate the biggest deal this Acquirer could pursue, it could use $150 million in 
Cash and perhaps up to $150 million in Debt, depending on Target’s EBITDA.  
The Acquirer’s  Current Equity Value is $500 million, so it would probably not issue more Stock 
than that.  
So, a high -end estimate for the maximum deal size might be $150 + $150 + $500 = $800 million . 
Issuing Stock worth half the company’s Current Equity Value ($250 mi llion) might be a more 
realistic maximum and would produce a maximum deal size of $550 million.  
There’s no scientifically proven “maximum deal size,” but you can make a quick estimate using this logic.  
Return to Top . 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule #4: The “True Purchase Price” in M&A Deals  
Here is the very short version : 
1) True Purchase Price  – The Purchase Enterprise Value (or something close to it) is the 
“true price” in an M&A deal.  
 
2) Seller Proceeds  – The Seller’s shareholders, however, do not receive this Purchase 
Enterprise Value; they receive the Purchase Equity Value  because they are only paid for 
their common shares.  
 
3) M&A Modeling  – In merger models and EPS accretion/dilution  calculations, the 
Purchase Equity Value  is often more relevant because the S eller’s existing Cash and 
Debt usually make a small net impact  on the combined statements – even though they 
factor into the “true price.”  
As a baseline  in any M&A deal, the B uyer must pay for all the Seller’s shares, corresponding  to 
the Purchase Equity Value . 
But most companies also have Cash and Debt, and most transactions have F ees and Minimum 
Cash requirements.  
If the S eller has Debt , the B uyer has three options:  
1) Assume the Debt , i.e., keep it in place as -is (rare because most debt agreements do not 
allow this).  
 
2) Refinance the Debt , i.e., issue new Debt for the same amount and use the proceeds to 
repay the existing Debt (by far the most common treatment).  
 
3) Repay the Debt  with Cash on hand (very rare).  
If the B uyer repays the Debt in full (option #3), it increases the effective price because the 
Buyer pays extra  to do it.  
This corresponds to Enterprise Value  because you add Debt to move from Equity Value to 
Enterprise Value.  
But even with the first two options, the B uyer effectively  pays for the Debt because it either 
assumes responsibility for it or issues new Debt  and assumes responsibility for it.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Saying that refinancing the S eller’s Debt doesn’t represent “payment” is like arguing that when 
you buy a new house via a mortgage and down payment, the new mortgage doesn’t count 
toward the total price.  
Of course it does! Yes, it’s a new issuance, but the home’s total price  is still based on the equity  
(down payment)  + debt (mortgage) used to buy it.  
With the Seller’s Cash, there are two main options:  
1) Distribute the Cash to the Seller’s shareholders as the deal closes (this happens in cash -
free, debt -free deals  f or private companies) . 
 
2) The Buyer retains the Cash and adds it to its Balance Sheet (more common in 
acquisitions of public companies).  
In both case s, the S eller’s Cash reduces the effective acquisition price.  
Again, this corresponds to Enterprise Value  because you subtract Cash to move from Equity 
Value to Enterprise Value.  
In the first case, the Cash distribution reduce s the Purchase Equity Value , so the Buyer pay s less 
for each of the Seller’s shares.  
This is because Equity Value is based on Net Assets, and a Cash distribution to shareholders 
reduces the company’s Net Assets ; it’s like a Dividend, which also reduces Equity Value.  
In the second case, the B uyer “gets” the Seller’s Cash when the deal closes, which reduces its 
effective price. 
Yes, maybe it paid $1,000 for the S eller’s shares, but it also got the S eller’s $200 Cash  balance, 
so it only “paid” a net amount of $800 for the S eller.  
Therefore, since the S eller’s existing Debt always increases the effective price, and the S eller’s 
existing Cash always reduces it, the “true price” is the Purchase Enterprise Value: Purchase 
Equity Value + Debt – Cash.  
That said, it gets a bit more complicated because of Fees  (for M&A advisory, legal/audit 
services, and financing) and Minimum Cash  requirements.  
These increase  the effective price because they require the Buyer to pay something extra when 
the deal closes.  
Here’s an example calculation  for a $990 million Purchase Equity Value deal for a Target with 
$250 million of Debt and $50 million of Cash:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
25 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
In a merger model, the Purchase Equity Value  is often more relevant because the Seller’s 
existing Cash and Debt make a small net impact  for two main reasons:  
1) Combined Interest Income  – If the B uyer “gets” the Seller’s Cash, the Combined Interest 
Income equals the Buyer’s Interest Income + the S eller’s Interest Income. The purchase 
price and offer premium make no difference.  
If the Seller’s Cash is distributed  and replaced with a new Minimum Cash, the Seller’s Interest 
Income will fall… 
…but t he Purchase Equity Value will also decrease , which means the Foregone Interest on Cash 
will be lower, offsetting this reduction in the Seller’s projected Interest Income.  
Therefore, the treatment of the Seller’s Cash still makes a fairly small net impact  on the 
Combined Income Statement in most cases.  
2) Combined Interest Expense  – If the B uyer assumes or refinances the S eller’s Debt, the 
Combined Interest Expense equals the B uyer’s Interest Expense + the Seller’s Interest 
Expense. The deal price makes no difference  because these items are combined. There 
may be a minor adjustment if the interest rate on the Debt changes . 
If the Buyer repays the Seller’s Debt completely, the Combined Interest Expense will change.  
In this case, the Buyer’s Cash balance will fall, resulting in less Interest Income, or it will issue 
more Stock, resulting in a higher combined S hare Count.  
But since the chances of a full Debt repayment are tiny , most people ignore it in models.  
This Combined Income Statement in a simple merger model sums up the rationale:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
26 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
The bottom line  is that the Purchase Equity Value explains most of  the net changes  on the 
Combined Income Statement, which is why it is important  despite not being the “true price.”  
Return to Top .  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
27 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule #5: Cash -Free , Debt -Free Deals 
Many acquisitions of private companies are structured as cash -free, debt -free deals.  
In a cash -free debt -free deal, the Seller’s existing Cash and Debt both go to $0 when the deal 
closes and are immediately replaced by new Debt and Cash balances . The new Cash is typically 
the Seller’s Minimum Cash  required for operations.  
The Purchase Enterprise Value  is more important in CF/DF deals, and it ’s always the biggest 
component on the Uses side of the Sources & Uses schedule.  
Do NOT be fooled by the name because “cash -free, debt -free” is a slightly deceptive term.  
Yes, the Seller’s Cash and Debt initially go to $0, but they are immediately replaced  and 
brought up to new, higher levels . 
 
 
The mechanics  for the Seller’s Cash and Debt  are as follows:  
• Debt > Cash:  The Seller uses its entire Cash balance to repay as much Debt as it can, and 
the remaining Debt after this repayment is deducted from the purchase price, so the 
proceeds to the selling shareholders are lower . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
28 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Cash > Debt:  The Target repays its entire Debt balance using its Cash, and the Target 
then distributes the remaining Cash to shareholders as the deal closes.  The proceeds to 
the selling shareholders are higher as a result. 
These mechanics mean that the selling shareholder s in a cash -free, debt -free deal get the 
Purchase Equity Value  because the Purchase Equity Value  = Purchase Enterprise + Cash – Debt . 
In ~99% of cases, cash -free, debt -free deals are economically equivalent  to non -cash -
free/debt -free deals because , in both cases, the “true price” is the Purchase Enterprise Value, 
the selling shareholders get the Purchase Equity Value, existing Debt is refinanced, and Cash is 
distributed to the shareholders and then brought up to the Minimum Cash level.  
However, they look different  at first glance, which is why many people mistakenly assume they 
are different.  
The deal funding  in a cash -free, debt- free deal is based on the Purchase Enterprise Value + the 
Seller’s Minimum Cash  + Transaction/Financing Fees.  
So, the Sources & Uses schedule for a cash -free, debt -free deal might look like this:  
 
The non-cash -free, debt -free version  looks like this:  
 
These schedules look different, but they’re equivalent if you rearrange a few terms:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
29 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Purchase Enterprise Value  and Existing Debt /Cash:  In the CF/DF version, the $1,190 
Purchase Enterprise Value = $990 Purchase Equity Value – $50 Cash + $250 Debt. In the 
non-CF/DF version, the $990 Purchase Equity Value + $250 of existing Debt appear  as 
explicit terms on the Uses side.  
 
The $40 of “Cash Used” on the Sources side represents $20 from the Acquirer and $20 
from the Target  because the Target’s Cash is $50, and its Minimum Cash is $30.  
 
This +$20 of Cash from the Target on the Sources side is equivalent to the –$20 of Cash 
from the Target on the Uses side in the CF/DF version . 
 
That’s because, in the CF/DF version, the Purchase Enterprise Value deducts the Target’s 
$50 Cash balance and adds $30 for the Minimum Cash for a total of – $20. A negative on 
the Uses side is the same as a positive on the Sources side.  
 
The bottom line is that in both versions, the Acquirer uses $20 of Cash to fund the 
deal, and the Target also uses $20 of Cash to fund the deal.  
 
• The Debt Issued  and Replaced of $470 in the CF/DF version equals the Target’s existing 
$250 of Debt plus  the $220 of new Debt. In the non- CF/DF version, these are shown 
separately as $220 for New Debt Issued and $250 for Assume/Replace Target’s Debt , 
but the total is still $470.  
 
• The Stock Issued  of $730 is the same  in both versions.  
On the Combined Income Statement, items such as the Foregone Interest on Cash, Interest Paid 
on New Debt, and New Shares Issued still exist.  
There are two new line items: “Lost Interest Income” and “Interest Savings on Repaid Debt.”  
Again, these make the model look  a bit different but are equivalent to the non- cash -free, debt -
free version (explanation below the image):  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
30 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Combined Income Statement is equivalent because we’re just grouping items differently : 
• Foregone Interest on Cash:  The total amount was $1.3 million in the previous example. 
Here, it’s also $0.9 + $0.4 = $1.3 million; it’s just split into two lines.  
 
• Post -Deal Interest Expense:  The total amount was $2.5 + $15.4 + $39.0 = $56.9 million 
in the previous example. Here, it’s $32.9 + $39.0 – $15.0 = $56.9 million.  
Since the adjustments are the same, the EPS accretion/dilution is the same . 
In both cases, the Target's e xisting Debt is replaced with new Debt  at a 1% higher interest 
rate, the same amount of “ New Debt” is used to fund the deal at the same 7% rate, and the 
same amount of Cash and Stock fund the deal . 
Cash-free, debt -free deals are “much ado about nothing.”  
They look different on paper  but are economically equivalent unless the treatment of Cash and 
Debt is wildly different, which is a “deal term ” issue  and not a CF/DF issue . 
Return to Top . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
31 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 6: How Equity Value and Enterprise Value Change in M&A  Deals  
Just as the financial statements change when one company acquires another, so too do metrics 
like Equity Value and Enterprise Value.  
The rules follow from the definitions of these metrics: Enterprise Value is “capital structure -
neutral” and reflects what the core business is worth, while Equity Value changes based on the 
capital structure and reflects the business's net assets , including the non- core ones.  
1. Combined Equity Value  = Acquirer’s Equity Value + Market Value of Stock Issued in the 
Deal.  
 
2. Combined Enterprise Value  = Acquirer’s Enterprise Value + Purchase Enterprise Value of 
Target.  
 
3. Combined Valuation Multiples:  TEV-based Combined Multiples are in between the 
Acquirer’s current trading multiples and Target’s purchase multiples. Equity Value -based 
Combined Multiples are usually in this range as well, but they do not have to be . 
 
4. Combined Enterprise Value -Based Multiples  – These do not change based on the deal 
financing (Cash/Stock/Debt) because the Combined Enterprise Value isn’t affected by 
the financing method, nor are metrics like Revenue, EBIT, or EBITDA.  
 
5. Combined Equity Value -Based Multiples  – These change based on the deal financing 
because the Combined Equity Value changes based on the Stock issued, and the 
Combined Net Income changes based on the Cash and Debt used and their interest 
rates.  
These rules do not necessarily hold up in the long term because companies’ share prices usually 
change after deal announcements . The  rules represent only the  immediate impact . 
We will now walk through a few simple examples of how to apply these rules using a scenario 
with Company A, the Acquirer, and Company B, the Target, whose financial profiles are shown 
below:  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
32 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
If Company A acquires Company B, the Combined  Equity Value  equals Company A’s Equity 
Value of $550 plus the market value of Stock issued to fund the deal.  
So, if it’s a 100% Stock deal with no premium, Combined Equity Value = $500 + $100 = $600.  
If it’s a 0% Stock deal, Combined Equity Value = $500  + $0 = $500.  
In this 0% Stock case, Company B’s Equity Value does not “ disappear” – instead , it is transferred  
into the Cash or Debt that Company A uses to acquire it.  
To illustrate, here’s a 100% Debt deal with no premium:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
33 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
With a 25% premium, a 100% Debt deal looks like this:  
 
The Combined Equity Value stays the same – it’s still Company A’s Equity Value – because 
Company A doesn’t issue any Stock to fund  this deal. 
If Company A pays a 25% premium for Company B using 50% Debt and 50% Stock, the 
Combined Equity Value change s, but the Combined Enterprise Value stays  the same:  
 
Why Enterprise Value Stays the Same:  The deal funding “replaces” the Target’s old Equity 
Value, so all the capital is preserved.  
For example, the Target’s Purchase Equity Value here is $125.  That goes away, but it’s replaced 
with $62.5 of new Debt and $62.5 of new Stock.  
The Combined Enterprise Value initially decreases by $125, but then it increases by $62.5 and 
then another $62.5, so it stays the same from beginning to end.  
You can also understand this idea by returning  to the definition of Enterprise Value: The value 
of Net Operating Assets to all  the investors.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
34 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Net Operating Assets of the Acquirer and Target stay the same because the financing 
method changes only the Cash, Debt, and Stock – so the Enterprise Value also stay s the same.  
Since the Combined Enterprise Value stays the same regardless of the financing method, 
there’s another important implication: 
Enterprise Value -based multiples for the Combined Company stay the same regardless of the 
deal financing . 
Here are a few examples of this principle : 
 
The Combined P / E multiple changes because  the Combined Equity Value and the Combined 
Net Income change based on the financing method . 
Stock issued affects the Combined Equity Value, and the Foregone Interest on Cash and Interest 
Paid on New Debt affect the Combined Net Income.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
35 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These concepts are important because many case studies, modeling tests, and interview 
questions are based  on them.  
That said, these rules are simplifications  that ignore many real- world factors, such as synergies, 
additional depreciation on asset write -ups, and merger and integration costs.  
Another problem is that the market may not like the deal, which usually results in the 
Acquirer’s stock price falling.  
For example, let’s say that Company A announces an acquisition of Company B for $125 million, 
reflecting a 25% premium, but the market think s that Company B is worth only $100 million.  
Market participants can’t “take away” Company A’s Cash or Debt, but they can sell Company 
A’s stock, which will reduce its stock price.  
If this happens, the Purchase Equity Value and Purchase Enterprise Value will stay the same , 
but Company A’s stock price will fall such that the Combined Equity Value and Combined 
Enterprise Value are both lower by $25 million.  
As a result, Company A will have to issue additional shares  to do the deal, making it less 
accretive.  
The bottom line is that the control premium paid in an M&A deal may not last after the deal 
is announced.  
If the market likes the deal and believes the Acquirer is paying  a reasonable price for the Target, 
the Acquirer’s share price might stay the same or even increase.  
But if not, the Acquirer’s share price will drop to reflect what the market believes the Target 
should be worth. 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 7: Full Merger Model Walkthrough  
In this section, we’ll walk through a “full merger model” based on a real -life M&A deal: Builders 
FirstSource’s  $2.5 billion acquisition of BMC Stock Holdings . 
Both companies operated in the building materials and supplies space, a mature industry at the 
time of the deal.  
We divide this process of building a full merger model in to the following eight  steps:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
36 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
1. Project the Financial Statements of the Buyer and Seller . 
2. Estimate the Purchase Price and Deal Financing . 
3. Create a Sources & Uses Schedule and Purchase Price Allocation Schedule . 
4. Combine the Balance Sheets of the Buyer and Seller  (OPTIONAL) . 
5. Calculate the Synergies (OPTIONAL) . 
6. Combine the Income Statements of the Buyer and Seller  and Calculate Accretion / 
Dilution . 
7. Calculate Cash Flow, Debt Repayment, and Key Metrics and Ratios . 
8. Create Sensitivity Tables . 
 
1) Project the Financial Statements of the Buyer and Seller  
At the minimum, we need to project the Income Statements for the Buyer and Seller with a few 
key “Cash Flow” line items as well (e.g., D&A, the Change in Working Capital, and CapEx).  
Here’s the projected Income Statement for Builders FirstSource , the Buyer in this deal:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
37 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We assumed percentage growth rates for the company’s main revenue segments and made the 
expenses percentages of revenue or linked them to the company’s employee count.  
The Interest Expense is based on a weighted average coupon rate applied to the company’s 
Debt balance, which decreases over time as the company repays Debt principal.  
The Cash Flow Statement projections include recurring spending for CapEx , Acquisitions , and  
Changes in Debt; Stock -Based Compensation is set to $0 to keep the share count constant.  
Stock Issuances and Repurchases are set to $0 for the same reason.  
EPS accretion/dilution is less meaningful if the pre -deal share count changes over time, so for 
analytical purposes, it’s best to keep this count the same in the projections.  
Next, we made similar projections for the Seller, which was straightforward since they were 
similar companies in the same industry . 
Return to Top . 
 
2) Estimate the Purchase Price and Deal Financing  
If the S eller is public , the purchase price is linked to an Offer Price per Share, which should be a 
premium to the company’s current share price.  
For private Sellers , the purchase price is based  on a TEV / Revenue, T EV / EBITDA, or P / E 
multiple, which you pick based on peer companies and the valuation methodologies.  
One added complication for public companies is that the purchase price is often framed as  an 
Exchange Ratio . 
For example, if the Exchange Ratio is 0.5x, the Seller will receive 0.5 new shares from the Buyer 
for each of its current shares outstanding.  
So, if the Seller currently has 100 million shares and a share price of $ 8.00, and the Buyer has 
200 million shares and a share price of $20.00:  
• The Buyer will issue 100 million * 0.5 = 50 million new shares.  
 
• Therefore, the Buyer will pay 50 million * $20.00 = $1 billion for the Seller.  
 
• The Offer Price per Share for the Seller is $20.00 * 0.5 = $10.00.  
 
• $10.00 per share is 25% higher than $8.00 per share, so this is a 25% premium.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
38 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In real life, the Buyer and Seller’s share prices could change significantly , so more advanced 
terms around the Exchange Ratio might limit  the shares that can be issued.  
For a basic analysis, th ese details are not important . Here’s the first part of our assumptions : 
 
The Seller’s existing Debt is assumed or replaced with the same amount of new Debt (i.e., 
“refinanced ”). 
Therefore, the funds required  are based on the Purchase Equity Value, and a small amount of 
Cash covers the Legal, Advisory, and Debt Issuance Fees:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
39 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You could simplify this by making the Cash, Debt, and Stock simple percentages, but you would 
need to check the dollar amounts against the restrictions here, such as the $250 million 
Minimum Cash post -transaction and the 4.0x maximum Debt / EBITDA.  
Return to Top . 
 
3) Create a Sources &  Uses Schedule and Purchase Price Allocation Schedule 
A Source of Funds  is anything the Buyer uses to pay for the Seller. Cash, Debt,  and Stock are the 
main Sources  in M&A deals.  
A Use of Funds  is anything that increases  the amount that a Buyer pay s for the Seller.  
The biggest Use of Funds is the Seller’s Purchase Equity Value (or the Purchase Enterprise Value 
in cash -free, debt -free deals ); deal fees and Debt repayment are other common Uses.  
If the Buyer assumes  the Seller’s Debt or  “refinances it” by replacing  it with new Debt  (what 
happens in most deals) , that existing Debt shows up under both Sources and Uses : 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
40 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Even though the Purchase Equity Value appears in the Sources & Uses schedule, the Purchase 
Enterprise Value is still the “true price” in this deal because the existing Debt that gets replaced is now the Buyer’s responsibility , and the Seller’s Excess Cash funds the deal.  
Once you’ve created the Sources & Uses schedule, you move on to  the Purchase Price 
Allocation (PPA) s chedule . 
You need to set up this schedule because , in almost all M&A deals, the Buyer pays a premium  to 
the Seller’s Book Value  or Common Shareholders’ Equit y. 
For example, the Buyer might pay $1,000 for the Purchase Equity Value, but the Seller’s Common Shareholders’ Equity is worth only $700.  
This Common Shareholders’ Equity is written down in the deal because the Seller no longer 
exists, and it’s replaced with the $1,000 of Debt, Cash, or Stock used to pay for the Purchase Equity Value.  
This creates a problem because you’re writing down $700 on the L&E side of the Balance Sheet but replacing it with $1,000 of new items, so it goes out of balance. 
To fix this problem, we create two new Assets:  
1) Other Intangible Assets, which represent identifiable  items that have some value, such 
as trademarks, p atents, the brand  name , and customer relationships ; and 
 
 
2) Goodwill, to represent everything else.  
At the same time, the Buyer must re -value all the Seller’s Assets and Liabilities when the deal 
closes and write them up or down to their “fair market values.”  
For example, perhaps the Seller purchased a building for $1,000 five years ago. This building will 
be listed  on the Seller’s Balance Sheet at $1,000 minus Accumulated Depreciation.  
If the Accumulated Depreciation is $100, the building will be $900 on the Balance Sheet.  
When the Buyer reviews this building and researches the local market, it concludes that it  is 
worth $1,100 based on recent sales data.  
Therefore, the Buyer will record a “write -up” of $200 to reflect this  fair market value . 
In addition to these Asset write -ups, you also write down a Seller’s existing Deferred Tax Asset s 
(DTA s) and Deferred Tax Liabilities  (DTL s) in most M&A deals . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
41 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These items were created  due to temporary differences  between C ash Taxes and B ook Taxes 
that will eventually reverse . 
But these types of temporary differences are reconciled and closed out  in M&A deals , so the 
existing DTA s and DTL s are wiped out, and a new DTL may be created  if there’s a write -up of 
PP&E or Other Intangible Assets.  
Depreciation & Amortization on these items is  not deductible  for cash -tax purposes, but the 
company still records the D&A on its book financial statements.  
Therefore, the Cash Taxes the company pays to the government will be higher  than the B ook 
Taxes it records on its Income Statement.  
A Deferred Tax Liability means the company expects to pay higher Cash Taxes than B ook Taxes 
in the future , which corresponds to this scenario.  
Over time, the DTL will decrease as the company pays the higher Cash Taxes ; eventually , it will 
reach $0 once the write -ups have been fully depreciated or amortized:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
42 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here’s  the Purchase Price Allocation s chedule  for this deal:  
 
Asset write -ups reduce  the Goodwill Created because they increase the Assets side of the 
Balance Sheet, which means less Goodwill is needed. Liability write -downs  also reduce the 
Goodwill Created because they make the L&E side of the Balance Sheet smaller . 
Liability write -ups increase  the Goodwill Created because they do the opposite. Asset write -
downs, similarly, increase  the Goodwill  Created . 
Return to Top . 
 
4) Combine the Balance Sheets of the Buyer and Seller  
The Balance Sheet combination is simple if  you’ve correctly set up the Sources & Uses and 
Purchase Price Allocation schedules . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
43 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You add together the Balance Sheets of the Buyer and Seller as of the deal close date , reflect 
the Cash, Debt, and Stock used in the deal, write up or down various Assets and Liabilities , and 
write down the Seller’s Common Shareholders’ Equity : 
 
Common changes on the Liabilities & Equity side  are as follows : 
 
If the post -transaction Balance Sheet does not  balance, you should review the S&U and PPA 
schedules and check off each item to ensure  it appears on the Combined Balance Sheet.  
Everything except for the Equity Purchase Price and Allocable Purchase Premium should appear 
once and only once in these “Pro -Forma Adjustments” columns.  
Return to Top . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
44 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
5) Calculate the Synergies  
Synergies  represent ways for 1 + 1 to equal 3 rather than 2 in M&A deals.  
For example, the Buyer’s standalone Revenue is $1,000, and the Seller’s standalone Revenue is 
$500.  
But after they merge, the Combined Revenue is $1,600 rather than $1,500 because the Buyer 
can sell some of its products to the Seller’s customers, and vice versa.  
There may also be Expense Synergies  related to headcount reductions , building consolidation , 
and better supplier deals  (due to volume discounts).  
In simple models, you might rely on each company’s estimates for Synergies and include them 
as lump -sum numbers : 
 
You can create more detailed estimates if you have more time and information . 
For example, the Expense Synergies might be based on the average spending  per employee and 
the expected headcount reduction after the deal . 
It costs money  to realize these Synergies due to employee severance costs and the need to 
change and consolidate internal systems, so these Merger & Integration Costs are usually modeled as a percentage of the fully realized Synergies:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
45 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
You can then value  these Synergies with a simple DCF; the example below also includes 
Revenue Synergies and subtracts the Merger & Integration Costs:  
 
This simple DCF assumes a Long -Term Growth Rate of 1% and a Discount Rate of 11% (the 
Buyer’s WACC).  
The most common mistakes  with Synergies include “forgetting” the Merger & Integration 
Costs, failing to include the additional COGS and OpEx associated with Revenue Synergies, and 
using nonsensical numbers, such as an OpEx reduction of 50%+ in a single year.  
Once you set up the Synergies and Merger & Integration Costs , you can combine the Buyer and 
Seller's Income Statements  in the next step.  
Return to Top . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
46 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
6) Combine the Income Statements of the Buyer and Seller  
Counterintuitively, we normally start this process with the bottom section of the Cash Flow 
Statement  to reflect the principal repayments on the New Debt used to fund the deal.  
This changing Debt balance  means the Interest Expense will change each year , so we need this 
Debt balance first before combining the Income Statements.  
If there are no required principal repayments, you can skip this step and return after you’ve 
finished the Combined Income Statement.  
 
Here’s each section of the Income Statement combination, starting with revenue and COGS:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
47 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
With the expense combination, be careful with the signs  because expenses should be negative, 
but expense synergies  should be positive:  
 
Next, we calculate the Combined Pre -Tax Income by factoring in the Net Interest Income from 
the Buyer and Seller, the Foregone Interest on Cash, and the Interest Paid on New Debt:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
48 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This “Pro -Forma EPS” metric makes the deal look better  by adding back the new D&A on asset 
write -ups and certain (allegedly) “ non-recurring  expenses ,” so many companies present it 
prominently when announcing deals.  
It has issues, such as the lack of a standard definition for “Pro -Forma,” but you should 
understand the basics since it is common in deal analysis.  
Return to Top . 
 
7) Calculate Cash Flow, Debt Repayment, and Key Metrics and Ratios  
You do not  need full Cash Flow Statement s for both companies, but you do need projections for  
the major  recurring line items , such as D&A, the Change in Working Capital, and CapEx. 
We had Cash Flow Statement projections for the Buyer and Seller here , so we added together 
their statements and include d the acquisition effects and new line items : 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
49 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Combined Cash Flow Statement is not that useful here because the New Debt always falls 
by 1% per year regardless of the cash flow.  Optional repayments on the New Debt would make 
the CFS much more useful.  
Once you’ve set up this schedule and linked everything properly, you can calculate  the Key 
Metrics and Ratios . 
These let you see if a deal uses too much or too little Debt and how the Combined Company 
differs from the Buyer and Seller as standalone entities.  
This schedule is not “required,” but it is helpful if you must answer case study questions or draft 
a presentation based on the deal:  
 
Return to Top . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
50 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
8) Create Sensitivity Tables  
With the model finished, we can analyze the impact of different purchase prices, different 
mixes of Cash, Debt, and Stock, and Synergy realization levels using sensitivity tables . 
Here are a few examples  that measure the Pro-Forma EPS accretion/dilution in Year s 1 and 2:  
 
These tables are not that useful because the main question is not the proper Exchange Ratio or 
purchase price but the financing : 100% Stock vs. a mix of Cash, Debt, and Stock.  
Also, we’re not sensitizing the Buyer’s Share Price because we’ve simplified the Exchange Ratio 
mechanics in this model.  
We could address the first issue by setting the financing to 100% Stock and recalculating the 
sensitivity tables ; the second issue  is more difficult to analyze without changing the model 
significantly  and making the Exchange Ratio  mechanics more complex . 
Remember that just because an M&A deal is accretive doesn’t mean it’s a good idea . 
Accretion/dilution  analysis  is a useful screening tool and can be a starting point for deal 
negotiations, but EPS accretion itself does not make a deal “work.”  
Return to Top . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
51 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 8: M&A Valuation, Value Creation, and the Contribution Analysis  
There are many ways to evaluate a merger or acquisition, and EPS accretion/dilution analysis 
isn’t the best choice in all scenarios.  
Accretion/dilution makes the most sense when the Buyer and Seller are close in size , have 
positive EPS and cash flow , and have financial motivations  for the deal . 
But not all Buyers care about EPS, and many deals feature companies of very different sizes or 
with negative EPS  figures.  
Also, even if  the Buyer and Seller are both similarly sized public companies with positive EPS , 
additional analyses may be useful for cross -checking  your work.  
If a deal uses > 50% Stock, factors such as the post -deal ownership and its potential impact on 
the Buyer’s share price  also matter a lot – which is why methods like the Contribution Analysis  
and the Value Creation Analysis  are quite important.  
Here are some alternative methods for evaluating M&A deals:  
Qualitative / “Strategic” Analysis  
This method is relevant in many acquisitions of small tech and biotech startups . 
These small companies have no profits, no cash flow, and almost no revenue, so acquisitions 
are not based  on financial criteria such as valuation multiples or EPS accretion/dilution.  
Inste ad, the rationale comes down to:  
1) Potential for Extremely High Growth – For example, if Small Biotech Firm B discovers a 
cure for skin cancer,  Big Pharma Company A might become the most valuable 
healthcare company in the world  if it acquires this smaller firm.  
 
2) Defensive Acquisition / Fear of Competition  – If Big Social Media Company A perceives 
a new, high -growth social media company as a threat, it might acquire it because of its  
strong network effects . If it doesn’t act quickly, the smaller company might grow virally 
and disrupt the bigger company’s entire business!  
These deals have little in -depth financial analysis , but you might justify them with back -of-the-
envelope math.  
For example, maybe each user of Smaller Social Media Company is worth $1.00 per year, and it 
has 100 million users currently.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
52 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But its users could grow to 500 million in a few years, so Big Social Media Company A offers 
$300 million to acquire it – more than what the company is currently worth but less than what 
it might be worth in the future.  
Return to Top . 
 
M&A Valuation  
You can value a company as a standalone entity  or in the context of an M&A transaction.  
In the context of an M&A transaction, the valuation should include potential Synergies , and the 
Discount Rate  may be the Buyer’s Rate or a blended Buyer/Seller Rate.  
If you complete an M&A valuation, you can compare the company’s Implied Equity Value  to 
the Purchase Equity Value  to evaluate whether the Buyer is paying an appropriate price  (it’s 
also fine to compare the Enterprise Values).  
With the example deal used in this guide, we valued the Seller on a standalone basis , added 
the Present Value of the Synergies , and compared that total to the Purchase Equity Value.  
In other words, does the Seller’s Implied Equity Value + PV of Synergies exceed the Purchase 
Equity Value the Buyer is paying?  
If so, the deal makes sense; if not, the Synergies must be higher for the math to work.  
The UFCF projections in the standalone DCF look like this:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
53 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Seller’s “undisturbed” share price just before this deal was announced was $32.22 . 
The DCF produces an Implied Share Price of $29.85, with a 25th to 75th percentile range of 
approximately $25.00 to $35.00.  
So, we conclude that the Seller is slightly overvalued  as a standalone entity . 
Therefore, if the Buyer pays a control premium  to do this deal, it must realize substantial 
Synergies for the math to work – the Seller is already slightly overvalued, and the Buyer is 
paying a 10% to 30% premium on top of that.  
We previously valued the Synergies  using the Acquirer’s WACC of 11% and found they were 
worth approximately $1.2 billion. At the Seller’s slightly lower WACC, they are worth closer to 
$1.7 billion.  
If we compromise and say the Synergies are worth about $1.5 billion : 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
54 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Seller’s Implied Standalone Equity Value from DCF:  $2.0 billion  
• Present Value of Synergies:  $1.5 billion  
• Equity Purchase Price:  $2.5 billion  
Since the Implied Standalone Equity Value + PV of Synergies is much higher than the Equity 
Purchase Price, this deal seems like a clear win  from a valuation perspective.  
However, this assumes that 100% of the Revenue and Expense Synergies are realized without 
any cost overruns or delays  and that they continue indefinitely into the future.  
If the Synergies are worth only 50%  of our expectations ($750 million), the purchase price and 
valuation are much closer to breakeven.  
Return to Top . 
 
IRR vs. Discount Rate (WACC)  
If you’ve already set up a DCF to value the Seller, you’ve projected and valued the possible 
Synergies, and you’ve calculated WACC for the Buyer and Seller, you can easily add an IRR vs. 
Discount Rate  analysis.  
The Discount Rate represents the Buyer’s targeted annualized returns , and the IRR represents 
the annualized returns the Buyer might earn on the deal.  
Therefore, if the IRR exceeds the Discount Rate, the deal is good ; if not, the deal is not. 
The mechanics are simple, but the analysis requires several judgment calls:  
1) Which Discount Rate Do You Use?  Probably not the Seller’s, but do you use the Buyer’s 
Discount Rate or a “weighted average”?  
 
2) Do You Use UFCF and WACC or LFCF and Cost of Equity?  We prefer UFCF and WACC 
because the DCF already use s UFCF and WACC, and Levered DCFs tend to create 
consistency issues.  
 
3) To Whom Do You Attribute the Synergies?  Does the Buyer get all the credit? Or is the 
credit split proportionally between the Seller and Buyer?  
With the first question, we use the Buyer’s Discount Rate  as the baseline in this deal but 
sensitize it to include numbers closer to the Seller’s WACC as well.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
55 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
With the third question, we effectively attribute the Synergies to the Seller’s cash flows  
because the Buyer would not be able to realize any of these without the Seller.  
Here’s our analysis, which extends directly from the DCF:  
 
The baseline Unlevered IRR of ~13% exceeds the Acquirer’s WACC of 11%, and sensitivity tables 
confirm this continues even at higher purchase prices.  
However, the Synergies present a significant risk because ~80%+ of the Expected Synergies 
must be realized for the IRR to exceed the Discount Rate reliably . 
Return to Top . 
 
Relative Contribution Analysis  
Another way to assess mergers and acquisitions is the Relative Contribution Analysis . 
In other words, if the Acquirer contributes 80% of the Combined Company’s Revenue, 
EBITDA, and other financial metrics, will it own  80% of the Combined Company afterward?  
If it owns less than 80%, then perhaps it is paying too much  for the Target; if it owns more than 
80%, then perhaps it is paying too little  for the Target.  
The Contribution Analysis is most relevant  for 100% Stock deals, “Merger of Equal” (MOE) 
deals, private company M&A deals, and deals financed with at least 50% Stock.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
56 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It’s not relevant for 100% Cash or 100% Debt deals because the Target won’t have any 
ownership in the Combined Company.  
You start this analysis by summing up the relevant metrics for the Acquirer and Target and 
calculating the Contribution Percentage for each one:  
 
Then, you calculate each metric's Combined Pro -Forma Enterprise Value based on the 
Acquirer’s Current Enterprise Value and its Contribution Percentage.  
So, if the Acquirer’s  Current Enterprise Value is $3  billion , and it contributes 75 % of the 
Revenue, the Combined Pro -Forma Enterprise Value is $3 billion / 75%, or $ 4 billion . 
That $4 billion represents what the Combined Enterprise Value “should be” for this new 
company once the deal closes.  
For Equity Value -based metrics, you use the Acquirer’s Current Equity Value and Contribution 
Percentage to determine the Combined Pro -Forma Equity Value.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
57 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
To move from the Combined Pro -Forma Enterprise Value to the Combined Pro -Forma Equity 
Value in each case, you subtract or add the standard TEV “bridge items” for both companies . 
Then, you  calculate the Target’s Implied Value based on each metric . 
For TEV -based metrics, take the Combined Pro -Forma Enterprise Value and subtract the 
Acquirer’s Current Enterprise Value . Here’s an example for the Combined Revenue metrics:  
 
You then move to the Target’s Implied 
Equity Value by subtracting the items in the Equity Value to Enterprise Value bridge . 
These numbers tell you what the Equity Purchase Price “should be ,” based on the 
percentage the Target contributes to each 
combined financial metric . 
You can also divide by the Target’s share 
count to get the Purchase Price per Share, 
and you can divide that by the Acquirer’s 
current share price to get the Implied Exchange Ratio , as shown on the right.  
Most of these purchase prices are below the Offer Price per Share of $36.63, so the 
Buyer may be overpaying.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
58 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You can also create a graph showing the Contribution Percentage  for each metric vs. the  
Ownership Percentage in a 100% Stock verison of this deal:  
 
So, based on these graphs and the implied offer prices, is the Acquirer overpaying ? 
Maybe.  
This Contribution Analysis excludes Synergies, which make a big difference; they would skew 
the numbers in favor of the Target if we credited them to the Target.  
Also, this deal won’t necessarily be 100% Stock; in the case study questions and presentation  
here, we recommended a mixed Cash, Debt, and Stock structure instead.  
With a mixed Cash/Debt/Stock deal, the Target will own far less of the Combined Company, so 
this question about the correct ownership percentage is much less important.  
Return to Top . 
 
Value Creation  Analysis 
You can also evaluate a deal by assessing its possible impact on the Acquirer’s share price.  
In a previous section of this guide , we stated these two rules:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
59 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
1. Combined Equity Value  = Acquirer’s Equity Value + Market Value of Stock Issued in 
Deal.  
 
2. Combined Enterprise Value  = Acquirer’s Enterprise Value + Purchase Enterprise Value of 
Target . 
These principles work for interview questions, but they don’t always hold up in real life . 
Immediately after  an acquisition is announced , the Combined Equity Value and Combined 
Enterprise Value might change as described above  – but after that, anything could happen.  
For example, if the market doesn’t “like” the deal, the Acquirer’s share price could plummet.  
Or if the deal turns out to be much better  than expected, the Acquirer’s share price could 
skyrocket, and the combined entity might end up being worth more than the Acquirer + Target.  
To account for these possibilities, you can use a  Value Creation Analysis  to estimate the 
Combined Company’s share price after the deal closes.  
In a Value Creation Analysis, you start by finding larger companies in the same industry that 
trade at higher multiples because of greater scale,  higher growth rates, a more favorable 
market position, or some other factor.  
For this deal, we select ed two larger companies  in building material -adjacent sectors : Carrier 
Global Corporation  [CARR] and W.W. Grainger, Inc.  [GWW]. 
Each one had $10 – 20 billion of revenue, and each conveniently traded at higher Revenue and  
EBITDA multiples.  
Then, we add ed up the Acquirer and Target’s standalone figures, including Synergies in the first  
combined year, to put the financial profiles side -by-side. 
For example, the FY 21 Projected EBITDA for the Acquirer + Target here equals each company’s 
standalone EBITDA plus  the net impact of Synergies and Merger & Integration Costs.  
Depending on the assumptions, the Combined EBITDA might be lower in the first year or two 
since most of the integration costs are incurred then!  
In the next step, we average d the Revenue and EBITDA multiples of CARR and GWW and 
appl ied these multiples to the Combined Company:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
60 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Yes, we’re assuming that the Combined Company will trade at significantly higher Revenue and 
EBITDA multiples because  of… magic?  Leprechauns? It’s not entirely clear.  
The Value Creation Analysis is highly  speculative, which is why many people don’t take it 
seriously.  
It’s useful in industries where larger companies predictably  trade at higher multiples due to 
scale and geographic diversity (e.g., commercial banks and REITs), but it’s a bit of a stretch to 
say it is highly relevant in the building materials sector.  
Continuing with the analysis, we added and subtracted the normal bridge items to move from 
the Implied Enterprise Value to the Implied Equity Value . 
We also had to include the Cash, Debt, and Stock used to fund the deal, which meant a lower 
combined Cash balance, a higher Debt balance, and a higher Share  Count.  
You can see an image summarizing this analysis on the next page.  
The “Combined Entity – Implied Share Price” represents this Combined Implied Equity Value 
divided by (Acquirer’s Share Count + Shares Issued to Fund the Deal).  
The results for the Revenue multiples seem so unbelievable that we ignore them.  
The results for the EBITDA multiples also show a substantial increase in the Acquirer’s share 
price, but it’s closer to the “believable zone.”  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
61 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The conclusion is that if there’s even modest multiple expansion – for example, if the 
Combined Company goes from a 7.5x forward TEV / EBITDA multiple to an 8.2x or 8.8x multiple  
– the Acquirer’s share price will increase after the deal closes.  
But if the Combined Multiple stays the same as the Acquirer or Target’s standalone multiples,  
the Acquirer’s share price will decrease . 
Synergies  also make a difference, but this entire analysis comes down to the likelihood of 
modest multiple expansion (we’re skeptical, but who knows).  
Return to Top . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
62 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
Merger models and M&A deals can get complex, but most interview questions  about these 
topics are simple  and relate to the rationale for deals and the basic calculations.  
The interview questions in this section reflect that reality . You need to know the fundamentals 
very well  because the “difficult questions” relate to the core topics rather than the more 
advanced points  or supplemental analyses.  
 
M&A Concepts and Overview  
Questions about  accretion/dilution and related calculations could come up, but you’re also 
likely to get many conceptual questions  about why deals happen.  
 
1. Why might one company want to buy another company?  
One company might want to buy another company if it believes it will be better off after the 
acquisition takes place. For example:  
• The Seller’s asking price  is less than its Implied Value , i.e. , the Present Value of its 
future cash flows.  
 
• The expected IRR from the acquisition exceeds the Buyer’s Discount Rate . 
Buyers often acquire Sellers to save money via consolidation and economies of scale, to expand 
geographically or gain market share, to acquire new customers or distribution channels, and to 
expand their products  and services.  
Synergies, or the potential to reduce expenses through consolidation or boost revenue through 
additional sales, also motivate  many deals.  
 
2. How can you analyze an M&A deal and determine whether  it makes sense?  
The qualitative analysis depends  on the factors above: C ould the deal help the company expand 
geographies, products, or customer bases, give it more intellectual property, or improve its 
team?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
63 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The quantitative analysis might include a Seller valuation to see if it’s undervalued and  a 
comparison of the expected IRR to the Buyer’s Discount Rate . 
Finally, EPS accretion/dilution is important in most deals because Buyers prefer to execute 
accretive deals, i.e., ones that increase their Earnings per Share (EPS) . The Board of Directors is 
more likely to approve of accretive deals, and investors also prefer accretive deals . 
 
3. Walk me through a merger model (accretion/dilution analysis) . 
In a merger model, you start by projecting the financial statements of the Buyer and Seller. 
Then, you estimate the Purchase Price and the mix of Cash, Debt, and Stock used to fund the 
deal. You create a Sources & Uses schedule and Purchase Price Allocation schedule  to estimate 
the after -effects of the deal on the financial statements.  
Then, you combine the Balance Sheets of the Buyer and Seller, reflecting the Cash, Debt, and 
Stock used, new Goo dwill created, and any write -ups and write -downs . You then combine the 
Income Statements, reflecting the Foregone Interest on Cash, Interest Paid on New Debt, and 
Synergies.  
The Combined Net Income equals the Combined Pre -Tax Income times (1 – Buyer’s Tax Rate), 
and the Combined EPS  equals the Combined Net Income divided by (Buyer’s Existing Share 
Count + New Shares Issued in the Deal ). 
The EPS accretion/dilution equals the percentage difference between this Combined EPS and 
the Buyer’s standalone EPS.  
 
4. Why might an M&A deal be accretive or dilutive?  
A deal is accretive if the extra Pre -Tax Income from a Seller excee ds the cost of the acquisition 
in the form of the Foregone Interest on Cash, Interest Paid on New Debt, and New Shares 
Issued.  
For example, if the Seller contributes $100 in Pre -Tax Income, but the deal costs the Buyer only 
$70 in additional Interest Expense, and the Buyer  doesn’t issue any new shares, the deal will be 
accretive because the Bu yer’s Earnings per Share (EPS) will increase.  
A deal w ill be dilutive if the opposite happens. For example, if the Seller contributes $100 in 
Pre-Tax Income , but the deal costs the Buyer $130 in additional Interest Expense, and its share 
count remains the same, its EPS will decrease.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
64 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
5. How can you tell whether an M&A deal will be accretive or dilutive? 
You compare the Weighted Cost of Acquisition to the Seller’s Yield at its P urchase Price.  
• Cost of Cash  = Foregone Int erest Rate on Cash * (1 – Buyer’s Tax Rate) 
• Cost of Debt  = Int erest Rate on New Debt * (1 – Buyer’s Tax Rate)  
• Cost  of Stock  = Reciprocal of the Buyer’s P / E multiple, i.e. , Net Income / Equity Value.  
• Seller ’s Yield  = Reciprocal of the S eller’s P / E multiple, c alculated using the Purchase 
Equity Value . 
Weighted Cost of Acquisition  = % Cash Used * Cost of Cash + % Debt Used * Cost of Debt + % 
Stock Used * Cost of Stock.  
If the Weighted Cost is less than  the Seller’s Yield, the deal will be accretive ; if the Weighted 
Cost is greater than  the Seller’s Yield, the deal will be dilutive . 
 
6. That sounds complicated. Are there any shortcuts for guesstimating whether an M&A deal 
will be accretive or dilutive?  
If it is a 100% Stock deal , you can compare the Buyer’s P / E multiple to the Seller’s P / E 
multiple at the purchase price . If the Buyer’s multiple is higher, the deal will be accretive (since 
the reciprocals of the P / E multiples in a 100% Stock deal are the Weighted Cost of Acquisition 
and the Seller’s Yield).  
For example, if the Buyer’s P / E multiple is 10x, the Weighted Cost of Acquisition is 10%.  
If the Seller’s Current Equity Value is $1000, the Buyer pays a 20% premium, and the Seller’s 
Net Income is $200, its P / E multiple at  the purchase  price is $1200 / $200 = 6x.  
Therefore, this deal is accretive because the Seller’s Yield is 1 / 6 = 16.7%, which is higher than 
the Weighted Cost of Acquisition.  
 
7. Why do you focus so much on EPS in M&A deals?  
Because it’s the only easy -to-calculate metric that also captures the FULL impact of the deal – 
the Foregone Interest on Cash, Interest Paid on New Debt, and New Shares Issued.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
65 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Metrics such as EBITDA  and Unlevered FCF more accurately represent the value of the 
company’s core business , but they don’t reflect the deal’s full impact  because they exclude the 
Net Interest Expense and New Shares Issued.  
 
8. How do you determine the Purchase Price in an M&A deal? 
If the Seller is public, you assume a premium to the Seller’s current share price based on the 
average premiums for similar deals in the market (usually between 10% and 30%). You can also 
use the DCF, Public Comps, and other valuation methodologies to cross -check this figure.  
The Purchase Price for private  Sellers is based  on the standard valuation methodologies, and 
you usually base it on a multiple of EBITDA , EBIT, or Revenue since private companies don’t 
have easy -to-determine share prices.  
If the Buyer expects to realize significant Synergies, it is often willing to pay a higher premium 
for the Seller because the Present Value of the Synergies might exceed this premium . 
 
9. What is the “true price” in an M&A deal: The Purchase Equity Value or Purchase Enterprise 
Value?  Why?  
The “true price” is the Purchase Enterprise Value  (or something close to it) because that 
represents what the Buyer pays all  the Seller’s investors for its core assets . However, the 
Purchase Enterprise Value is not necessarily what the Buyer pays in “upfront capital .” 
Also, for analytical purposes, the Purchase Equity Value is often the key assumption and drives 
the Cash, Debt, and Stock used to fund a deal.  The Purchase Equity Value is also what the 
selling shareholders receive in the deal.  
 
10. Can you expand on that answer? Why are many M&A models based on the Purchase 
Equity Value if what you just said about the “ true price ” is correct?  
The issue is that the Seller’s existing Debt and Cash do not necessarily make a significant  net 
impact  on the Combined Income Statement, but the Cash, Debt, and Stock used to fund the 
Purchase Equity Value always do.  
For example, if the Seller’s existing Debt is refinanced and replaced in the deal, the interest rate 
may shift a little, but there won’t be a dramatic difference in the Seller’s Pre -Tax Income: It still 
deducts the Interest Expense on that Debt.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
66 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the Seller has Excess Cash, its post -deal Interest Income will be lower if this Cash is distributed 
to its shareholders, but that will also reduce the effective purchase price for the Buyer, meaning 
that it uses less Cash/Debt/Stock to fund the deal . So, the Seller’s existing Cash and Debt tend 
to “cancel out” or, at least, make a small difference.  
 
11. OK, but what about cash- free, debt -free deals for private companies? Aren’t they 
different since they’re based on Purchase Enterprise Value?  
No. They look different  on paper, but these deals are economically equivalent if you go through 
the math.  
For example, in a cash -free, debt -free deal, the Uses side of the Sources & Uses schedule is 
based on Purchase Enterprise Value  (Purchase Equity Value – Cash + Debt ), and there’s a 
Minimum Cash line  on the Uses side.  
This might look  different from the non- cash -free, debt -free version , but two components of it 
are the same (the Purchase Equity Value and Assume/Refinance Existing Debt  are both on the 
Uses side ). 
The Seller’s Cash netted against its Minimum Cash equals its Excess Cash; this is a negative on 
the Uses side in the CF/DF version  but a positive on the Sources side in the non-CF/DF version . 
They’re equivalent  because a negative on the Uses side is a positive on the Sources side.  
The Combined Income Statement also looks different, but it’s also equivalent if you go through 
the math; it’s just that line items are split up differently (e.g., Interest Expense might be the 
total rather than Interest on New Debt vs. Interest on Assumed/Refinanced Debt).  
 
12. What are the advantages and disadvantages of each purchase method (Cash, Debt, and 
Stock ) in M&A deals?  
Cash tends to be the cheapest option; most companies earn little Interest Income on it, so they 
don’t lose much by using it to fund deals. Cash- based deals  are also fast and easy to close.  
The downside is that using Cash limits the Buyer’s flexibility i f it needs the funds for something 
else soon . 
Debt is normally cheaper than Stock  but more expensive than Cash, and deals involving Debt 
take more time to close because  of the need to market the new Debt issuance.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
67 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Debt also limits the Buyer’s flexibility because additional Debt makes future  Debt issuances 
more difficult and expensive  and might limit the total amount that can be raised.  
Stock tends to be the most expensive option, but it can sometimes be the cheapest  (on paper) 
if the Buyer  trades at a n extremely high P  / E multiple . 
It dilutes the Buyer’s existing investors  but also prevents the Buyer from paying an additional 
cash expense  for the deal.  
In some cases, the Buyer can also issue Stock more quickly than it can issue Debt.  
Finally, the tax implications  also differ: The Seller’s shareholders are not taxed immediately if 
they receive shares from  the Buyer, but they do pay taxes immediately if they receive cash 
proceeds for their shares ( in Cash and Debt  deals ). 
 
13. How does an Acquirer determine the mix of Cash, Debt, and Stock to use in a deal?  
Since Cash is the cheapest for most Acquirers, they’ll use all they can before moving to the 
other funding sources. So , you might assume that the Cash Available equals the Acquirer’s 
current Cash balance minus its Minimum Cash balance , also factoring in the Target’s Cash and 
Minimum Cash when applicable.  
After that, Debt tends to be the next cheapest option. An Acquirer might be able to raise Debt 
to the level where its Debt / EBITDA remain s in-line with peer companies ’. 
So, if it’s levered at 2x EBITDA now , and similar companies have 4 -5x Debt / EBITDA, it might be 
able to raise an additional 2 -3x EBITDA worth of Debt . Again, you may also factor in the Target’s 
Debt and EBITDA if they are significant.  
Finally, there’s no strict limit on the amount of Stock an Acquirer might issue, but few 
companies would issue enough to give up control of the company , and some Acquirers will 
issue Stock only up to the point at which the deal turns dilutive.  
 
14. Which purchase method does a Seller prefer in an M&A deal?  
The Seller must  balance taxes  with  the payment  certainty  and potential future upside . 
To a Seller, Debt and Cash are similar because they mean immediate payment, but also 
immediate capital gains taxes for the shareholders and no potential upside if the Buyer’s share 
price increases.  But there’s also no risk if the Buyer’s share price decreases.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
68 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Stock  is more of a gamble because the Seller could end up with a higher price if the Buyer’s 
share price increases, but it could also get a lower price if the Buyer’s share price drops. The 
Seller’s shareholders also avoid  immediate taxes with Stock since they pay taxes only when 
they sell their shares.  
So, the preferred method depends on the Seller’s confidence in the Buyer: Cash and Debt are 
better when the uncertainty  is higher , while Stock may be better with large, stable Buyers.  
 
15. What’s the impact of each purchase method in an M&A deal, and how do you estimate 
the Cost of each method?  
The Foregone Interest on Cash represents the Cost of Cash . The Acquirer loses future projected 
Interest Income by using Cash to fund a deal. The Interest Expense on New Debt represents the 
Cost of Debt . 
For both , you multiply the interest rate  by (1 – Acquirer’s Tax Rate) to estimate the after -tax 
costs.  
The Cost of Stock is represented  by the additional shares created in a deal and how those 
shares reduce the Combined Company’s EPS. It’s the reciprocal of the Acquirer’s P / E Multiple, 
i.e., the Acquirer’s  Net Income / Acquirer’s  Equity Value.  
 
16. Isn’t the Foregone Interest on Cash just an “opportunity cost”? Why do you include it?  
No, it’s not  just an “opportunity cost” because the Acquirer’s projected  Pre-Tax Income already 
includes the Interest Income that the company expects  to earn on its Cash balance ! 
So, if an Acquirer forecasts $90 in Operating Income and $10 in Interest Income for a total of 
$100 in Pre -Tax Income, its projected Pre-Tax Income will fall if it uses Cash to fund the deal.  
 
17. Isn’t it contradictory to calculate the Cost of Stock using the reciprocal of the Acquirer’s P 
/ E multiple? What about the Risk -Free Rate, Beta, and the Equity Risk Premium?  
It’s not a contradiction; it’s just a different way of measuring the Cost of Equity.  
The “Reciprocal of the P / E Multiple” method measures the Cost of Equity in terms of  EPS 
impact, while the CAPM method (with the RFR, Beta, and ERP) measures it based on the stock’s 
expected annualized returns.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
69 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Neither method is “correct”  or “incorrect” because you use them in different contexts.  
Regardless of the method, Stock is usually a company's most expensive funding source . 
 
18. Why might an Acquirer choose to use Stock or Debt even if it could pay for the Target 
with 100% Cash?  
The Acquirer might not necessarily use its entire Cash balance if much of it is in overseas 
subsidiaries or other wise restricted.  
Also, the Acquirer might be preserving its Cash for a future expansion plan , Debt maturity , or 
other purpose.  
Finally, if the Acquirer trades  at high multiples , such as a 100x P / E  multiple , using Stock to fund 
the deal might be cheaper . 
 
19. Are there cases where EPS accretion/dilution is NOT important? What other analyses 
could you look at ? 
Yes, there are many cases where EPS acc retion/dilution is less important . 
For example, if the Buyer is private  or has negative EPS as a standalone entity, it won't care 
whether the deal is accretive or dilutive.  
It also makes little difference if the Buyer is far bigger than the Sell er (e.g., 10x – 100x its size).  
Besides EPS accretion/dilution, you can also analyze the deal's qualitative merits , compare the 
IRR to the Discount Rate, and value the Seller plus the Synergies and compare that to the Equity 
Purchase Price.  
Finally, you can create a Contribution Analysis to determine  how much the Buyer and Seller 
"contribute"  to each financial metric  and then compare the contribution percentages to their 
respective ownership percentages , assuming it’s a 100% Stock deal.  
Value Creation Analysis, to determine how the Buyer’s share price will change after the deal 
closes, may also be useful in certain contexts, such as if the Buyer + Seller together will 
resemble a larger, more valuable public company in the market.  
 
20. How does a merger differ from an a cquisition?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
70 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
There are no mechanical difference s because there’s always a Buyer and Seller in any M&A 
deal . 
The difference is that in a m erger, the companies are closer in size, while the Buyer is 
significantly larger than the Seller in an a cquisition . 
100% Stock or majority -Stock  deals are also more common in m ergers because similarly sized 
companies can rarely use only Cash or Debt to acquire each other.  
You’ll also place more weight on the Contribution Analysis and Value Creation Analysis in 
mergers because of this prevalence of 100% Stock deals . 
 
21. What are the main PROBLEMS or limitations of merger models?  
First, EPS is not always a meaningful metric. Second , Net Income and “cash flow” are quite 
different, so  EPS-accretive deals could be bad in terms of cash flows or valuation.  
Third, merger models don’t capture the true risk inherent in M&A deals ; 100% Cash deals 
almost always look accretive, even though the integration process might go wrong, legal issues 
might arise, and customers or shareholders might revolt.  
Fourth, merger models often fail to consider what might happen if the Buyer or Seller’s share 
prices change significantly before the deal closes . 
Finally, merger models don’t capture the qualitative factors required for successful deals , such 
as the cultural fit or management’s ability to work together.  
 
22. You are an investment banker advising a client on a sell -side M&A deal. Can you walk me 
through the process and explain the main steps?  
In a sell -side M&A deal, bank ers market  the company to potential buyers and help negotiate a 
deal for the  best price and terms possible.  
The bankers start by meeting the company, creating initial marketing materials like the 
Executive Summary and Offering Memorandum (OM), and deciding on potential buyers.  
Then, they send the Executive Summary to potential buyers to gauge their interest, and they 
respond to follow -up requests for more information.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
71 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Next, they narrow the list of potential buyers by setting a bid deadline and requiring written 
Indications of Interest (IOIs) from buyers. Bankers select certain bidders to advance, continue to 
send them information, and narrow the list.  
Eventually, they pick the winner, negotiate the Purchase Agreement, and announce the deal. 
Bankers try to maximize the client's price , but they also add value by negotiating the other 
terms and winning competing offers.  
Return to Top . 
 
Accretion/Dilution Calculation s 
Questions about accretion/dilution math can be surprisingly tricky  and often turn into 
“gotcha s,” so it’s best to practice with many examples.  
 
1. Company A, with a P / E of 25x, acquires Company B for a purchase P / E multiple of 15x. 
Will the deal be accretive?  
You can’t tell unless you know it’s a 100%  Stock deal.  
If it is a 100% S tock deal, then it will be accretive because the Buyer’s P / E is higher than the 
Seller’s, indicating that the Buyer’s Cost of Acquisition (1 / 25, or 4 %) is less than the Seller’s 
Yield (1  / 15, or 6.7%).  
 
2. Company A has 10 shares outstanding at a share price of $25.00 , and its Net Income is $10.  
It acquires Company B for a Purchase Equity Value of $150. Company B has a Net Income of 
$10 as well. Assume the same tax rates  for both compani es. How accretive is this deal? 
Company A’s EPS is $10 / 10 = $1.00.  
Company A must issue 6 new shares to do the deal since $150 / $25.00 = 6, so the Combined 
Share Count is 10 + 6 = 16 . 
Since no Cash or Debt is  used and the tax rates are the same, the Combined Net Income = 
Company A Net Income + Company B Net Income = $10 + $10 = $20.  
Therefore, the Combined EPS  is $20 / 16 = $1.25, so it’s accretive by 25%.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
72 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
3. Company A now uses Debt with an Interest Rate of 8% to acquire Company B. Is the deal 
still accretive? At what interest rate does it change from accretive to dilutive ? 
The Weighted Cost of Acquisition is 8% * (1 – 25%), or 6%, so the deal is still accretive because 
that Cost is less than the Seller’s Yield of 6.7%.  
For the deal to turn dilutive, the After -Tax Cost of Debt would have to exceed 6.7%. Since 6.7% 
/ (1 – 25%) = 8.9 %, the deal would turn dilutive at an interest rate >= 8.9%. 
 
4. What are the Combined Equity Value and Enterprise Value in this deal?  
Assume that Equity Value = Enterprise Value for both  the Buyer and Seller  and that the deal 
uses 100% Stock funding. 
Combined Equity Value = Buyer’s Equity Value + Market Value of  Stock Issued in the Deal  = 
$250 + $150 = $400.  
Combined Enterprise Value = Buyer’s Enterprise Value + Purchase Enterprise Value of Seller = 
$250 + $150 = $400.  
 
5. How do the Combined T EV / EBITDA and P / E multiples change if the deal financing 
method changes?  
The Combined TEV / EBITDA stays the same regardless of the financing method, but the 
Combined P / E multiple change s based on the Stock issued and the Cash and Debt used. 
The Stock issued affects the Combined Equity Value, and the Cash and Debt used affect the 
Combined Net Income  because of the Foregone Interest on Cash and Interest Paid on New 
Debt.  
 
6. Without doing any math, what range would you expect for the Combined P / E multiple ? 
The Combined P / E multiple should be  between the Buyer’s P / E multiple and the Seller’s 
Purchase P / E multiple, so it’s between 25x and 15x here.  
Since Company A is larger than Company B, we would expect the Combined P / E multiple to be 
closer to Company A’s multiple of 25x.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
73 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
7. Now assume that Company A is twice as big, so its Equity Value is $500 , and its Net Income 
is $20. Will a 100% Stock deal be more or less accretive? 
The deal will be less accretive . 
The intuition is that Company A’s P / E remains the same, but it’s significantly bigger, so the 
higher -yielding Company B provides less of a boost to Company A’s EPS.  
The Combined P / E multiple will still be between 15x and 25x, but it will be even closer to 25 x 
because Company A has a higher weighting in the combined company.  
 
8. Now , do the math. W hat is the accretion/dilution in a 100% Stock deal  with a $150 
Purchase Equity Value for Company B ? Feel free to write down the numbers . 
Company  A’s share price is now $50.00, it still has 10 shares outstanding, and its Equity Value is 
$500. Its EPS is $20 / 10 = $2.0 0. 
Company A must issue 3 additional shares to acquire Company B since $150 / $50.00 = 3.  
Since both companies have the same tax rate and no Cash or Debt w as used, you can add the 
Net Income figures : Combined Net Income = $ 20 + $10 = $30.  
The new share count is 10 + 3 = 13, and the new EPS is $30 / 13 = $2.31. This is about 15% 
higher than the Buyer’s standalone EPS. 
So, it’s ~10% lower than the 25% accretion when Company A was smaller.  
 
9. Company A  has a P / E of 10x, a Debt Interest Rate of 8%, a Cash Interest Rate of 4 %, and a 
Tax Rate of 25%.  
It wants to acquire Company B at a purchase P / E multiple of 16x using 1/3 Stock, 1/3 Debt, 
and 1/3 Cash. Will the deal be accretive?  
Company  A’s After -Tax Cost of Stock is 1  / 10, or 10%, its After -Tax Cost of Debt is 8% * (1 – 
25%) = 6%, and its After -Tax Cost of Cash is 4 % * (1 – 25%) = 3 %. 
Comp any B’s Yield is 1 / 16, or 6.25%  (mental math: 1 / 4 = 25%, and 1 / 8 = 12.5%, so 1 / 16 = 
6.25%).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
74 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Weighted Cost of Acquisition is 10% * 1/3 + 6% * 1/3 + 3% * 1/3 = 3.33% + 2% + 1% = 
6.33%.  
The deal will be dilutive  since the Weighted Cost is slightly above Company B’s Yield . 
 
10. Company A acquires Company B using 100% Debt. Company B has a purchase P / E 
multiple of 1 2x, and Company  A has a P / E multiple of 15x.  
What interest rate on Debt is required to make the deal dilutive? 
Company B’s Yield is 1 / 12, or 8.3 %, so the After -Tax Cost of Debt must be above  8.3% for the 
deal to be dilutive.  
Assuming the company has a tax rate of 25 %, 8.3% / (1 – 25%) = 11.1 %, which you can round to 
“Around 11 %” (mental math: there’s a 33% difference between 8% and 12%, but the tax rate is 
only 25% here, so the interest rate must be slightly less than 12%).  
11% is a high interest  rate for most companies , so a 100% Debt deal would probably be 
accretive.  
 
11. Company A has an Equity Value of $1,000 and a Net Income of $100. Company B has a 
Purchase Equity Value of $2,000 and a Net Income of $50.  
How much in Synergies must be realized for a 100% Stock deal to be accretive ? 
Company A’s P / E is $1,000 / $100 = 10x, so its Cost of Stock is 10%. Company B’s P / E is 
$2,000 / $50 = 40x, so its Yield is 1 / 40, or 2.5%.  
Therefore, w ithout Synergies, this deal would be highly dilutive.  
Company B’s Yield must exceed 10% for the deal to turn accretive . That means its Purchase P / 
E multiple must be below 10x, meaning  its Net Income must be above $200. 
So, there must be $150 in A fter-Tax Synergies  for this deal to be accretive. At a 25 % tax rate, 
that means at least $200 in Pre-Tax Synergies.  
 
12. An Acquirer has an Equity Value of $1 billion, Cash of $50 million, EBITDA of $100 million, 
Net Income of $50 million, and a Debt / EBITDA of 2x. Peer companies have a median Debt / 
EBITDA of 4x.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
75 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It wants to acquire another company f or a Purchase Equity Value of $5 00 million. The Seller 
has a Net Income of $30 million , EBITDA of $50 million , and no Debt.  
What’s the best way to fund this deal?  Use the Combined EBITDA figures in the calculations.  
The Acquirer would prefer to use its Cash balance to do this deal, but $50 million is probably 
close to its minimum Cash for a company of this size , so Cash financing is unlikely.  
The company could afford to boost its Debt / EBITDA from 2x to 4x since peer companies have 
leverage in that range.  
The Combined Company has $150 million in EBITDA, and 4 * $150 million = $600 million.  
The Acquirer has $200 million in Debt,  and the Target has no Debt,  so the Acquirer could afford 
to issue $400 million in new Debt  to fund the deal.  
The remaining $100 million c ould be funded with Stock. If the Acquirer use d part of its Cash or 
Target’s Cash balance , this $100 million Stock portion would be reduced . 
 
13. An Acquirer has an Equity Value of $500 million, Cash of $100 million, EBITDA of $50 
million, Net Income of $25 million, and Debt / EBITDA of 3x.  
Similar companies in the market have Debt / EBITDA ratios of 5x.  
What’s the BIGGEST acquisition this company might be able to complete?  
You can’t answer this question precisely without knowing the Target’s Net Income and EBITDA, 
but you can make a rough estimate.  
The Acquirer couldn’t use its entire  Cash balance to fund a deal, but it might be able to use a 
substantial portion of it, such as $50 million , since its remaining Cash balance would then equal 
its annual EBITDA.  
It could afford to use leverage up to 5x EBITDA, which means it could use $100 million in 
additional Debt to fund a deal  (since it currently has $150 million of Debt, or 3 * $50 million).  
That number might also change based on the Target’s Debt and EBITDA . 
There’s no limit to how much Stock the company could issue, but it probably wants to limit the 
issuance to a level that lets it retain control.  
Therefore, the likely maximum is around $500 million of Stock, and a more realistic level might 
be about half its Current Equity Value ($250 mill ion), or the amount  that turns the deal dilutive.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
76 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
So, a reasonable answer might be : “In theory, the Acquirer might be able to fund a deal for up 
to $50 + $100 + $500 = $650 million. But a more realistic maximum level would be around $400 
million, assuming a $250 million Stock issuance .” 
Return to Top . 
 
Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and Multiples in M&A Deals  
Questions about Equity Value and Enterprise Value in M&A deals are less common than ones 
on accretion/dilution, but they often come up as follow -up questions  to other scenarios.  
 
1. An Acquirer with an Equity Value of $500 million and an Enterprise Value of $600 million 
buys another company for a Purchase Equity Value of $100 million and a Purchase Enterprise 
Value of $150 million.  
What are the Combined Equity Value and Enterprise Value?  
The Combined Enterprise Value equals the Enterprise Value of the Buyer plus the Purchase 
Enterprise Value of the Seller, so it’s $600 + $150 = $750 million.  
You can’t determine the Combined Equity Value because it depends on the deal financing : 
Combined Equity Value = Acquirer’s Equity Value + Market Value of Stock Issued in Deal.  
If it’s a 100% Stock d eal, the Combined Equity Value will be $500 + $100 = $600 million, but if 
it’s 100% Cash or Debt, the Combined Equity Value = $500 million.  
Depending on the % Stock used, the Combined Equity Value will be between $500 and $600 
million.  
 
2. How do the Combined Equity Value and Enterprise Value change based on the deal 
financing ? 
The Combined Enterprise Value is not affected by the deal financing : It always equals the 
Buyer’s Enterprise Value plus the Purchase Enterprise Value of the Seller.  
The Combined Equity Value equal s the Buyer’s Equity Value plus the Market Value of Stock 
Issued in the Deal, which could range from $0 up to the Seller’s Purchase Equity Value . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
77 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
So, in a 100% Stock d eal, the Combined Equity Value = Buyer’s Equity Value + Purchase Equity 
Value of Seller.  
 
3. Wait, y ou’re saying that in a 100% Cash or Debt deal, the Seller’s Equity Value just 
“disappears .” How is that possible?  
The Seller’s Equity Value doesn’t “disappear” – it’s transformed  into the Cash used or Debt 
issued by the Buyer in the deal.  
The Combined Enterprise Value calculation demonstrates this point: Both companies’  
Enterprise Values still exist after the deal, so no value is “lost” along the way.  
 4. Wait a minute, you’re also saying that the purchase premium the Acquirer pays for the 
Target will last  after the deal closes? How is that possible?  
The purchase premium does not necessarily “last” because it depends on the market’s reaction 
to the deal.  
If the market  believes the premium  was justified, the rules about the Combined Equity Value 
and Combined Enterprise Value will hold up.  
However, if the market believes the Acquirer overpaid for the Target, the Acquirer’s share price 
will fall to reflect the amount by which it overpaid.  
 
5. Let’s say an Acquirer has a n Equity Value of $500 million and an Enterprise Value of $600 
million. The Acquirer has 100 million shares outstanding at $5.00 per share. The Target has an Equity Value of $100 million and an Enterprise Value of $150 million, and 
the Acquirer pays a 30% premium to acquire the Target in a 100% Stock deal. 
A few months after the deal is announced, the market loses faith in the deal and believes the 
30% premium is no longer justified.  
What happens to the Combined Equity Value and Enterprise Value immediately after the deal 
is announced vs. several months later  when the market loses faith in the 30% premium?  
Immediately after, Combined Equity Value = $500 million + $130 million = $630 million since it’s a 100% Stock deal.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
78 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Combined Enterprise Value = $600 million + $180 million = $780 million.  
When the market loses faith in this 30% premium, the Acquirer’s share price will fall such that 
its Equity Value and Enterprise Value both decrease by $30 million.  
$30 million / 100 million shares = $0.30, so the Acquirer’s share price will fall to $4.70, and the 
Combined Equity Value will decrease to $600 million because the Acquirer’s Equity Value is now 
only $470 million.  
Combined Enterprise Value = $570 million + $180 million = $750 million , so it is also down by 
this $30 million premium.  
 
6. How does th at last answer change if the Acquirer uses 100% Debt or Cash instead?  
The Combined Enterprise Value changes the same way in both steps: I nitially , it’s $780 million, 
but it falls to $750 million when  the Acquirer’s share price falls.  
The Combined Equity Value is initially only $500 million in a 100% Debt or 100% Cash deal 
because no Stock is issued . When the Acquirer’s share price falls, the “Combined Equity Value ,” 
which is just the Acquirer’s Equity Value here, drops to $470 million.  
 
7. An Acquirer with an Equity Value of $500 million and an Enterprise Value of $600 million 
has a Net Income of $50 mill ion and an EBITDA of $100 million. 
The Target , with a Purchase Equity Value of $100 million and a Purchase Enterprise Value of 
$150 million, has a Net Income of $10 mil lion and an EBITDA of $15 million.  
What are the Combined P / E and T EV / EBITDA multiples in a 100% Stock deal?  Assume the 
same tax rates for the Acquirer and Target.  
The Combined Equity Value in a 100% Stock deal is $500 + $100 = $600 million, and the 
Combined Enterprise Value is $600 + $150 = $750 million.  
The Combined EBITDA is $115 million, and the Combined Net Income, assuming the same tax 
rates  and no interest effects since it’s a 100% Stock deal , is $50 + $10 = $60 million.  
Therefore, the Combined P / E multiple is $600 million / $60 million = 10x, and the Combined 
TEV / EBITDA multiple is $750 million / $115 million = ~6.5x.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
79 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
8. How would those Combined Multiples change in a 100% Cash or Debt deal?  
The Combined TEV / EBITDA multiple would stay the same because neither the Combined 
Enterprise Value nor the Combined EBITDA is affected by the deal financing . 
The Combined P / E multiple would change because the Combined Equity Value would be only 
$500 million  in a 100% Cash or Debt deal.  
The Combined Net Income would also change because of the Foregone Interest on Cash and Interest Paid on New Debt.  
In most cases, the Combined P / E multiple will be lower in  a 100% Cash or 100% Debt deal 
because the Combined Equity Value will decrease by a greater percentage than the Combined 
Net Income.  
 
9. How do the Combined Multiples change based  on the deal financing ? 
Enterprise Value -based multiples do not change based on the % Cash, Debt, and Stock used 
because the Combined Enterprise Value is not affected by the deal financing , and T EV-based 
metrics such as Revenue, EBITDA, and EBIT are also not affected by it.  
Equity Value -based multiples do  change based on the deal financing because the Combined 
Equity Value depends on the Stock Used, and Equity Value -based metrics such as Net Income 
are affected by the Foregone Interest on Cash and Interest Paid on New Debt.  
 
10. What are the possible ranges for the Combined Multiples after a deal takes place?  
Combined Enterprise Value -based Multiples will be between the Buyer’s standalone multiples 
and the Seller’s purchase multiples . 
Combined Equity Value -based Multiples are often in that range as well, but they do not have to 
be (see the next question for an example).  
You cannot  average the Buyer’s multiples and the Seller’s purchase multiples to determine the 
Combined Multiples because the companies could be different size s. 
You also cannot  use a weighted average because the proportion s of Enterprise Value , EBITDA , 
and other financial metrics from each company might be different.  
The Combined Multiples will be closer to the Buyer’s multiples if the Buyer  is much bigger, but 
they’ll be in the middle of the range if the Buyer and Seller are closer in size.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
80 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
11. Consider this M&A scenario:  
• Company A: Enterprise Value of $ 100, Equity Value of $80, EBITDA of $10, Net Income 
of $4, and Tax R ate of 50 %. 
 
• Company B: Enterprise Value of $40, Equity Value of $40, EBITDA of $ 8, Net Income of 
$2, and Tax R ate of 50 %. 
Calculate the T EV / EBITDA and P / E multiples for each company . 
Company A T EV / EBITDA = $100 / $10 = 10x; P / E = $80 / $4 = 20x.  
Company B T EV / EBITDA = $40 / $8 = 5x; P / E = $40 / $2 = 20x.  
 12. Company A acquires Company B using 100% Cash and pays no premium.  Assume a 5% 
Foregone Interest Rate on Cash.  
What are the C ombined TEV / EBITDA and P / E multiples?  
Combined TEV / EBITDA = Combined Enterprise Value / Combined EBITDA = $140 / $18 = ~7.8x.  
Combined P / E = Combined Equity Value / Combined Net Income.  
The Combined Equity Value is the Acquirer’s Equity Value of $80 since no Stock was issued . 
We can add both companies’ Net Incomes since they have the same tax rate, so the Combined 
Net Income is $6. But we have to adjust for the Foregone Interest on Cash as well.  
The Acquirer used $40 in Cash, and 5% * $40 = $2. After the 50% tax rate, that’s a $1 reduction 
in Net Income.  
So, the Combined Net Income is $5, which makes the Combined P / E = $80 / $5 = 16x.  
 
13. Now , let’s say th at Company A uses 100% Debt with a 10% inte rest rate to acquire 
Company B.  
Again, Company A pays no premium for Company B. What are the combined multiples?  
The Combined TEV / EBITDA multiple remains the same at ~7.8x because the deal financing 
does not affect it . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
81 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Combined Equity Value is still the Acquirer’s Equity Value of $80.  
The Combined Net Income before adjustments is $6, but now we must adjust for the Interest 
Paid on New Debt.  
If Company A uses $40 of Debt to acquire Company B, it will pay $40 * 10% * (1 – 50%), or $2, in 
After -Tax Interest.  
So, the Combined Net Income is $4, which makes the Combined P / E = $80 / $4 = 20x.  
Return to Top . 
 
Full Merger Model Mechanics  
Ironically, questions about the full merger model  tend to be easier than those in the previous 
sections because building a merger model is straightforward  and doesn’t lend itself to “mental 
math .” 
So, as with the first section, these questions tend to be more conceptual . 
 
1. What information do you need from  the Buyer and Seller to create a full merger model? 
At the minimum, you need Income Statement projections for both companies over the next few 
years. Ideally, you will also create simple cash  flow  projections that track the changes in each 
company’s Cash and Debt over the same period . 
You do not  need full 3 -statement projections for both companies – like a DCF analysis, cash 
flow estimates without Balance Sheet projections are fine.  
 
2. Why is a Sources & Uses schedule important in a full merger model? 
The Sources & Uses (S&U) schedule spells out the deal financing in detail, including the exact 
amounts of Cash, Stock, and Debt used to fund the deal and what they’re paying for (e.g., the 
Seller’s shares, fees, refinanced Debt, etc.).  
Without a S&U schedule, it’s more difficult to calculate lines like the Foregone Interest on Cash in a full model because the total “Cash Used” might be spread across different assumptions.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
82 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
3. How do the assumptions for a cash-free, debt-free deal for a private Seller differ from 
those of a standard M&A deal for a public Seller?  
In a c ash-free, debt-free deal, the Seller’s existing Cash and Debt balances go to $0 when the 
deal closes and are replaced with new Cash and Debt balances . 
The Cash is brought up to the Seller’s Minimum Cash, and the new Debt balance is usually the 
same as the old one because it is simply replaced with a new issuance.  
If Debt > Cash, the Seller uses its Cash balance to repay as much Debt as it can, and the 
remaining amount of Debt is deducted from the proceeds that go to the selling shareholders 
(i.e., they earn less because they must use some of their money to repay the Debt).  
If Cash > Debt, the Seller repays its entire Debt balance using its Cash, and it distributes the 
remaining Cash to shareholders right before/as the deal closes, which reduces its Equity Value.  
In these types of deals, the purchase price is usually based on a multiple  such as TEV / EBITDA 
or TEV / Revenue rather than a share -price premium because the Seller is private.  
Also, the Uses side of the Sources & Uses schedule is based on the Purchase Enterprise Value , 
the Seller’s Minimum Cash, and the Transaction/Financing Fees . 
The Sources side is standard and includes the usual Cash, Debt, and Stock line items . 
 
4. What’s the purpose of a Purchase Price Allocation schedule  in a merger model?  
The main purpose is to estimate the Goodwill  created  in a deal.  
Goodwill exists because the Purchase Equity Value in deals almost always exceeds the Seller’s 
Common Shareholders’ Equity (CSE).  
When this happens, the Combined Balance Sheet will go out of balance because the Seller’s CSE 
is written down to $0, but the total amount of Cash, Debt, and Stock used in the deal is greater 
than the CSE that was written down.  Goodwill exists to “plug the gap” and ensure  the Balance 
Sheet balances.  
So, you estimate the new Goodwill with this schedule, factor in write -ups of Assets such as 
PP&E and Intangibles, and include other acquisition effects such as the creation of a new 
Deferred Tax Liability and changes to existing Deferred Tax items.  
 
5. Why do Deferred Tax Liabilities get created in many M&A deals?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
83 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A Deferred Tax Liability, or DTL, represents the expectation that Cash Taxes will exceed Book 
Taxes in the future.  
DTLs get created because the Depreciation & Amortization on Asset Write -Ups is not deduc tible 
for cash -tax purposes in a Stock Purchase (i.e., an M&A deal where the Buyer purchases all the 
Seller’s common shares and acquires everything  the Seller has).  
As a result, the Buyer will pay more in C ash Taxes than Book Taxes until the Write -Ups are fully 
depreciated/amortized . Each time the Buyer pays more in C ash Taxes than Book Taxes, the DTL 
decreases until it eventually reaches  0. 
 
6. An Acquirer purc hases a Target for a $1 billion Equity Purchase Price . This Target has $600 
million in Common Shareholders’  Equity and no existing Goodwill.  
The Acquirer plans to write up the Target’s PP&E and Other Intangible Assets by $100  million . 
Walk me through the Purchase Price Allocation, assuming a 25% tax rate.  
The “Allocable Purchase Premium” equals the Equity Purchase Price minus the Common 
Shareholders’ Equity  plus the Target’s existing Goodwill, so $1 billion – $600 million + $0 = $400 
million.  
The PP&E and Other Intangible Assets increase by $100 million, so you subtract  this figure 
because it means you’ll need less Goodwill to make the Balance Sheet balance . So, the 
Purchase Premium is down to $300 million.  
Then, you create a Deferred Tax Liability due to the future D&A on these asset write -ups. It’s 
equal to $100 million * 25%, or $ 25 million, and you add it  because an additional item on the 
L&E side means that more Goodwill will be needed on the Assets side.  
So, $325 million of Goodwill gets created, along with Asset Write -Ups of $100 million and a new 
Deferred Tax Liability of $ 25 million.  
 
7. What happens if an Acquirer purchases another company for a $1 billion Equity Purchase 
Price, but the Target’s Common Shareh olders’ Equity is $1.5 billion?  
Assume there are no write- ups or other adjustments.  
“Negative Goodwill” cannot exist per the rules of IFRS and U.S. GAAP.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
84 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
So, you record this $500 million difference as an Extraordinary Gain on the Income Statement, 
which increases Pre -Tax Income and Net Income.  
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is higher, and you reverse this Extraordinary Gain 
because it’s non- cash . You also reverse the additional Book Taxes paid on it via a positive 
adjustment in the Deferred Taxes line item  on the CFS.  
The initial Balance Sheet combination still works the same way, but you don’t record any 
Goodwill; you just add all the Target’s Assets and Liabilities  to the Acquirer’s  and reflect the 
Cash, Stock, and Debt used to fund the deal.  
The increased Net Income (due to the Extraordinary Gain) flows into Common Shareholders’ Equity, and the DTL changes based on the Deferred Tax line item adjustment.  
Cash does not change because the Extraordinary Gain is non -cash , and the company’s Cash 
Taxes stay the same.  
 
8. What are the main adjustments when combining the Balance Sheets in an M&A deal?  
You reflect the Cash, Debt, and Stock used in the deal, create new Goodwill, write up Assets 
such as PP&E and Other Intangibles, and reflect the Seller’s assumed or refinanced  Debt. You 
also show any new Deferred Tax Liabilities and the write -offs of existing DTLs and DTAs.  
Then, you write down the Seller’s Common Shareholders’ Equity , deduct transaction fees from 
CSE, and deduct financing fees from  the Book Value of the New Debt.  
These are the most common adjustments, but there are others; for example, you might reduce the combined Accounts Receivable or Accounts Payable to reflect intercompany  receivables or 
payables . 
 
9. Give me an example of how you might estimate the Revenue and Expense Synergies in an 
M&A deal.  
With Revenue Synergies, you might assume that the Seller can sell its products to some of the 
Buyer’s customer base.  
So, if the Buyer has 100,000 customers, 1,000 of them might buy widgets from the Seller. E ach 
widget costs $10.00, which is $10,000 in extra R evenue.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
85 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
There will also be COGS and Operating Expenses associated with these extra sales, so you must 
also factor those in . For example, if each widget costs  $5.00, the Combined Company will earn 
only $5,000 in extra Pre -Tax Income.  
With Expense Synergies, you might assume  that the Combined Company can close a certain 
number of offices or lay off redundant employees, particularly in IT, accounting, and HR functions . 
For example, if the Combined Company has 10  offices, management might believe only 8 will 
be required after the merger.  
If each office costs $100,000 per year, there will be 2 * $100,000 = $200,000 in E xpense 
Synergies, boosting  the Combined Pre -Tax Income by $200,000.  
 
10. Why do many merger models tend to overstate the impact of Synergies?  
First, many merger models do not include the costs associated with R evenue Synergies. Even if 
the Buyer or Seller can sell more products or services after the deal occurs , those extra sales 
cost something , so you must include the extra COGS and OpEx . 
Second, realizing Synergies takes time. Even if a company expects $10 million in “long -term 
synergies,” it won’t realize all of them in Year 1; it might take several years , and the percentage 
realized will increase gradually over time.  
Finally, realizing S ynergies costs money . There will always be “integration costs” associated 
with a deal, and certain types of S ynergies, such as headcount reductions , will cost even more 
due to severance costs  for employees.  
 
11. How do you calculate the Combined Company’ s Debt repayment capacity in a merger 
model? You do this by creating a “ mini- Cash Flow  Statement. ” 
You eliminate most of the Financing and Investing sections  (except for CapEx and potentially 
Dividends)  but keep most of the Cash Flow from Operations section.  
It’s like what you do in a DCF to project Unlevered Free Cash Flow, but you’re projecting the 
company’s Free Cash Flow  – which deducts Net Interest Expense – here.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
86 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You must  include the Net Interest Expense because it directly affects  a company’s ability to 
repay Debt principal and generate Cash; it serves a different purpose than a DCF since you’re 
tracking a company’s Cash and Debt balances  rather than valuing it.  
 
12. How should you treat Stock -Based Compensation  (SBC)  in a merger model? 
The easiest approach is to count it as a cash operating expense. Just as in a DCF, SBC is 
problematic because it increase s the company’s diluted share count and, therefore, reduces its 
value to existing shareholders . 
But it’s difficult to estimate this impact since you would have to project the company’s share 
price and details of the SBC to do that . Also, it’s much easier to analyze M&A deals if each 
company’s standalone share count stays the same each year . 
So, it’s easiest to keep SBC as a deduction on the Income Statement (whether embedded within 
other expenses or separate) and not add it back on the Cash Flow Statement.  
That way, it’s effectively a cash operating expense, and each company’s share count stays the 
same (assuming the Stock Issuances and Repurchases are also set to 0).  
 
13. Why might you calculate metrics such as Debt / EBITDA and EBITDA / Interest for the 
Combined Company in an M&A deal?  
These metrics tell you whether the Acquirer could use more  Debt to fund the deal or if it’s using 
too much  Debt to fund the deal.  
Sometimes , looking at a number like Debt / EBITDA immediately after a deal closes is deceptive 
because the Combined Company can de -lever rapidly by paying off Debt.  
So, even if its Debt / EBITDA jumps up to a high level, such as 5x or 6x, if it can repay Debt and 
bring it down to 2x or 3x in a few years, it might be able to use more Debt to fund the initial 
deal.  
 14. How do Pro -Forma EPS and Pro -Forma accretion/dilution from the standard or 
IFRS/GAAP -compliant figures?  
This point is confusing because there’s no universal definition of Pro-Forma EPS.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
87 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But most companies calculate it by adding back non- cash expenses created in an M&A deal, 
primarily the Amortization of Intangibles and the  Depreciation of PP&E Write -Ups,  and some 
also add back Restructuring  and Merger /Integration Costs , claiming they are “non -recurring .” 
Then, they calculate the Combined Net Income based on this “Pro -Forma” Pre -Tax Income with 
these line items added back.  
Many companies report Pro -Forma EPS accretion/dilution based on these figures, but you 
should be skeptical because these numbers tend to understate the true costs of acquisitions.  
 
15. Suppose that you set up an IRR vs. Discount Rate analysis to judge the merits of an M&A 
deal. What are its possible drawbacks and limitations?  
One problem with this analysis is that it’s unclear whether you should use the Buyer’s Discount 
Rate, the Seller’s, or a weighted average . Therefore, if the Buyer and Seller's Discount Rates  
differ significantly , the results could change dramatically.  
Other problems relate to the treatment of Synergies  and the Terminal Value of the Synergies . 
The IRR could change significantly depending on whether the Buyer or Seller gets “credit” for 
the Synergies . 
There are also questions about whether  a “Terminal Value” for Synergies is justified, as  they 
probably won’t last forever.  Like EPS accretion/dilution, the IRR vs. Discount Rate analysis is 
useful , but it’s still only one way to judge M&A deals.  
 
16. Walk me through a Contribution Analysis for a 100% Stock M&A deal.  
In a Contribution Analysis, you add the Buyer and Seller's financial metrics , such as Revenue 
and EBITDA, and determine the percentage the Buyer and Seller “contribute” to each combined 
metric.  
Then, you estimate the Pro -Forma Combined Enterprise Value based on the Buyer’s Enterprise 
Value / Buyer’s Contribution Percentage for the relevant metric.  
For example, if the Buyer’s Enterprise Value is $1,500, and it contributes 75% of the Combined 
Revenue, the Pro -Forma Combined Enterprise Value based on Revenue is $1,500 / 75% = 
$2,000.  
You then subtract the Buyer’s Enterprise Value from this number to get the Seller’s Implied Enterprise Value, and you subtract the items in the TEV bridge to get its Implied Equity Value.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
88 of 88 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Then, you divide by its share count to get the Implied Offer Price. You can then compare this 
Implied Offer Price to the actual Offer Price in the deal to determine whether the Buyer is paying an appropriate price.  
 
17. How does the Value Creation Analysis in M&A deals work, and when is it appropriate?  
In a Value Creation Analysis, you assume that the Buyer + Seller as a combined entity will trade 
at higher valuation multiples, in -line with the multiples of larger public companies in the sector.  
You calculate the Combined Enterprise Value  based on those higher multiples , subtract all the 
TEV bridge items , and reflect the Cash and Debt used in the deal  to get the Combined Equity 
Value . 
The Implied Share Price equals the Combined Equity Value / (Buyer’s Share Count + Shares Issued in Deal).  
If this share price exceeds  the Buyer’s standalone share price, the deal “created value.”  
This analysis is highly speculative  because there’s no guarantee that the Buyer + Seller 
combined will magically trade at higher multiples; it’s most relevant if the deal represents a clear case of Companies #2 and #3 in the market combining to compete with Company #1.  
It’s less relevant when the market is highly fragmented or when the Buyer + Seller together still 
do not resemble larger companies.  
Return to Top . 