 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Core Financial Modeling , Module  13: Equity Capital Markets (ECM), 
Debt Capital Markets (DCM), and Leveraged Finance (LevFin)  
Table of Contents:  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  ................................ ................................ ........................  2 
Key Rule #1: What the Capital Markets and Leveraged Finance Teams Do  ...................  2 
Key Rule #2: Debt vs. Equity vs. Convertible Bond Financing Decisions  ........................  4 
Key Rule #3: Analysis of Initial Public Offerings (IPOs)  ................................ .................  27 
Key Rule #4: Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs)  ................................ ..... 38 
Key Rule #5: Analysis of Follow -On Offerings (FOs)  ................................ .....................  43 
Key Rule #7: Bond Yields, Pricing, Duration, and Convexity  ................................ .........  51 
Key Rule #8: Options, Call Premiums, and Make -Whole Provisions  ............................  68 
Key Rule #9: Debt Comps and Refinancing Recommendations  ................................ ... 77 
Key Rule #10: Convertible Bond Accounti ng, Valuation, and Analysis  .........................  84 
Interview Questions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  98 
Debt vs. Equity  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  98 
IPOs, Follow -On Offerings, and SPACs  ................................ ................................ ........  103 
Credit Analysis on the Financial Statements  ................................ ..............................  109 
Bond Analysis  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  114 
Convertible Bonds  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......  122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  
You could easily get general  ques tions about equity and debt in interviews, and you need to 
know about them to understand valuation, M&A, and leveraged buyouts.  
However, this guide covers specialized questions  – ones that are unlikely  to come up in 
interviews with the M&A group or industry groups . 
You might get these questions if you’re interviewing with the ECM  (Equity Capital Markets), 
DCM  (Debt Capital Markets), or LevFin  (Leveraged Finance)  teams.  
The first two key rules here are important for all th ese groups. The sections on Initial Public 
Offerings (IPOs) , SPACs, and Follow -Ons (FOs) are only relevant for ECM, and the sections on 
bond analysis  are relevant only  for DCM and LevFin.  
And t he la st section on convertible bonds applies  mostly to ECM, but you could still receive 
questions about c onvertibles in DCM or LevFin interviews . 
 
Key Rule #1: What the Capital Markets and Leveraged Finance Teams Do  
All these teams help companies raise capital . 
For example, a company might approach your bank and say , “We want to raise $100 million  to 
complete an acquisition, build a factory, repay debt, or expand into a new market . Please f ind 
investors, suggest terms, and arrange the deal, and we’ll pay you a fee for your services.”  
You would then advise the company on its best options  for raising capital, the most appropriate 
terms, and the best investors to target, and you would execute  the whole process.  
Capital markets groups add value by:  
1) Advising  the company on the best type  of capital to raise , such as e quity, debt, 
convertible bonds, or other variations.  
 
2) Connecting  the company with potential investors that might be interested  in new 
offerings . The bank’s sales team maintains relationships with investors, leveraging  these 
relationships to sell new issuances.  
 
3) Arranging  the entire deal, from marketing the company to investors to negotiating the 
final terms  of the offering . 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
4) Assuming Balance Sheet risk  if the bank lends the company money directly instead of 
re-selling the issuance to investors . 
The basic process for raising capital looks like this:  
1) Data Gathering: The bank meets with the company to gather information, such as the 
company’s financial projections, sales by product and geography, and so on.  
 
2) Valuation:  In equity deals , the bank values the company u sing the standard 
methodologies  to get an idea of what its shares might be worth.  
 
3) Credit Analysis:  In debt deals , the bank creates operational scenarios for the company 
(e.g., Base, Downside, and Upside) to estimate the company’s credit stats and ratios  
(e.g., Debt / EBITDA)  in different cases . It focuses on the Downside case(s) to “stress 
test” the company.  
 
4) Advice:  Based on these analyses , the bank advises the company on the most 
appropriate pricing, valuation, and shares to offer (for equity) or the amount and type of 
debt, interest rates , principal repayment percentages , covenants, redemption 
premiums, and other terms (for debt).  
 
5) Marketing:  Next, the bank markets the company and its issuance to potential inve stors. 
This step is simple for Follow -On O fferings (FOs) since the company is already public, but 
it’s more time -consuming for IPOs, and regulators are more involved. SPAC deals to go 
public are in between  IPOs and FOs in terms of speed and regulation.  
 
The process for debt issuances could be internal  or external if the bank markets the 
offering to institutional investors.  
 
6) Issuance:  If all goes well, the company issues the debt or equity at the agreed -upon 
terms. Investors buy the offering, and the company receives cash from the sale ; it can 
use that cash to expand, acquire other companies, repay debt, or issue dividends.  
This process is quite similar to the one in M&A deals.  
The main difference is that the marketing process and negotiations in M&A deals are more 
complicated because another company is buying 100% of your client.  
It takes far less effort to convince Fidelity to buy a 0.1% stake in your client than to convince 
Microsoft to spend $ 50 billion to acquire 100% of your client.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The financial modeling  is also different: little is required for most equity deals, while M&A deals 
tend to be more technically intensive with merger models, LBO models, valuations, etc.  
There is a fair amount of modeling in some d ebt deals  (usually for non-investment -grade debt) , 
but it’s a different kind of modeling  because you focus on the company’s cash flow profile and 
ability to service its debt.  
But the biggest difference is that capital markets teams spend more time comparing financing 
options for a company and recommending the best one.  
If a company wants to issue d ebt, the DCM team won ’t say, “Sorry, we can’t help ,” unless the 
company is a horrible  candidate for debt. 
Instead, the team will say, “Sure. W e thin k an issuance with terms A, B, and C is best for you. 
You wante d X, Y, and Z, but we think these terms are more realistic.”  
We’ve covered the differences between DCM and LevFin elsewhere , but D CM focuses on 
investment -grade debt issuances that companies use for “everyday  purposes. ” 
LevFin f ocuses on non -investment -grade debt used to fund M&A deals , leveraged buyouts 
(LBOs) , and other one -off transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations.  
There is some  overlap between the groups, so these rules are not universal. However, these 
guidelines are useful for understanding the high -level differences.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 2: Debt vs. Equity  vs. Convertible Bond Financing Decisions  
For this discussion, we’ll use a case study of Netflix as it was transitioning from a speculative, 
high -growth tech company  into a mature , lower -growth media company.  
At this time, the company’s stock price had fallen by ~70%  over a few months , and it had 
approximately $4 billion in upcoming debt matur ities over the next several years.  
Interest rates were also rising, and all signs pointed  to a recession in the U.S. and other 
developed countries.  
As a result, management wanted to raise $4 billion in debt ASAP to lock in lower interest rates 
and use the proceeds to fund the upcoming maturities ($700 million in Year 1, $400 million in 
Year 3, $1.8 billion in Year 4, and $1 billion in Year 5).  
Netflix approached our bank and asked the following questions:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
1) Should it issue equity, debt, or a convertible bond to pay for these upcoming maturities?  
 
2) Should it issue this capital now or wait until the maturity dates? In other words, how 
advantageous is it to lock in lower interest rates?  
In real life, there is not necessarily a step -by-step “process” for this exercise.  
However, we can create a process  by understanding the trade -offs of different funding sources:  
• Debt  tends to be cheaper  than equity because lenders target /expect lower returns than 
common sha reholders; also, the interest paid on debt is tax -deductible.  
 
• But debt incurs a cash c ost, unlike equity, in the form of the ongoing interest expense 
and possible principal repayments.  
 
• Also, debt comes with many restrictions  (“covenants”) ; for example, lenders might 
require the company to stay below a certain Debt / EBITDA ratio or above a certain 
EBITDA / Interest ratio.  
 
• Debt  tends to be more suitable for mature/value -oriented businesses with stable cash 
flows that can service the debt, while equity  is more appropriate for growth -oriented 
businesses with significant potential upside.  
 
• Therefore, if the company is more mature/v alue -oriented, and it can afford the debt’s 
interest expense and comply with the covenants, it will prefer to issue debt  since it’s 
cheaper than equity  in most cases.  
 
• If the company cannot issue debt  for all its required funding  (due to problems with the 
covenants or the inability to pay for the full interest expense) , it will use equity  for some 
or all of it.  
 
• And if the company wants to reduce its cash interest expense  and it’s perceived as 
more of a “growth” firm (or somewhere in between  value and growth ), a convertible 
bond  might be appealing.  For investors, convertible bond s often act as “hedged equity,” 
allowing them to invest in high -growth companies and get downsi de protection.  
Here’s the flow chart : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Convertible bonds are low -interest  debt that can be converted into common shares if the 
company’s share price reaches a certain level.  
They usually have fewer restrictions than traditional debt (or no restrictions at all), which 
makes it possible for speculative, high -growth companies with unstable cash flows to issue 
them.  
Many people claim that convertible bonds  are “cheaper” than traditional debt or equity 
because they offer lower coupon rates (e.g., 1% rather than 5% for an equivalent traditional 
bond)  and no immediate share dilution.  
But this claim is not true  if you measure the costs honestly. In reality, convertible bonds have a 
blended cost between traditional debt and equity , and in many analyses, they are counted as 
one or the other.  
We’ll follow these steps  to implement  the decision -making process in the diagram above:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
1) Calculate the company’s Cost  of Equity and Cost of Debt  to confirm that debt is cheaper 
than equity  and to suggest possible terms for these new issuances, such as the coupon 
rate and maturity for the debt.  
 
2) Create operational scenarios , including Upside, Base, Downside , and Extreme Downside 
cases, and incorporate them into a 3 -statement or simple cash flow model  for the 
company.  
 
3) Build a Debt Schedule  to track the company’s interest expense, debt principal 
repayments, and debt and cash balances over time.  
 
4) Examine the company’s credit stats and ratios  in different scenarios. Determine if the 
company complies with the lenders’ covenants or its internal targets for metrics such as 
Debt / EBITDA and EBITDA / Interes t, even in the most pessimistic cases.  
 
5) If the company breaches  these requirements or targets (e.g., EBITDA / Interest falls to 
1.5x, but the minimum is 2.0x), consider alternate structures, such as a mix of debt and 
equity or a convertible bond.  
 
6) Also, consider “outside the box” solutions , such as splitting up the issuances over time 
or refinancing only when needed if the company has staggered debt maturities.  
Netflix : Case Study Overview  
Here’s the company’s current financial profile : 
• Revenue:  $30 billion USD  
• Growth:  15-30% historically, but projected at 5 -10% over the next several years  
• Free Cash Flow:  Very negative to marginally positive with the SBC add -back removed  
• EBITDA:  $6.4 billion  
• Debt:  $15 billion (2.4x EBITDA)  
• Equity Value:  $85 billion  
• Net Income:  $5.1 billion  
• Tax Rate:  Approximately 20% (higher than the historical rates due to the Excess Tax 
Benefits from Stock -Based Compensation diminishing after its recent stock crash ) 
The company has $4 billion in upcoming debt maturities and wants our advice on the following:  
1) Should it issue equity, debt, or a convertible bond to pay for these upcoming maturities?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
2) Should it issue this capital now or wait until the maturity dates? In other words, how 
advantageous is it to lock in lower interest rates?  
Step 1: Calculate the Company’s Cost  of Equity and Cost of Debt  
It’s worth using several analyses and data points for this part because different methods 
produce slightly different results, and we always want ranges of values . 
We can start by gathering a set of comparable public companies for  Netflix (or referring to the 
provided set of comps ) and calculating the Cost of Debt and Cost of Equity for each company : 
 
The Cost of Equity uses the traditional formula: Risk -Free Rate + Levered Beta * Equity Risk 
Premium, and the Cost of Debt is based on the weight ed-average Yield to Maturity (YTM)  on 
each company’s debt issuances.  
The YTM represents the internal rate of return (IRR) on a bond if investors buy it at its current 
market price  and hold it to maturity . 
The YTM is higher than the coupon rate if the market price is below the bond’s par value 
because investors “get a discou nt” when this happens.  
If the market price is above the bond’s par value, the opposite happens.  
If we proceed with the analysis, un -lever Beta, and then re -lever it based on different methods, 
Netflix’s Cost of Equity is in the 9 – 10% range, which closely matches the comparable 
companies above:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
We could also examine a set of “Debt Comps” or “Compa rable Debt Offerings” from similar 
U.S.-based software /media companies issuing unsecured senior notes over the past few years:  
 
The Cost of Debt initially seems higher for these companies, but that’s deceptive because their 
credit stats and ratios are also much worse:  
 
We can also calculate the weighted -average YTM on Netflix’s current debt issuances, which is 
around 3.3% , to estimate its Cost of Debt.  
Based on all that, Netflix’s  Pre-Tax Cost of Debt is likely in the 3 – 4% range.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For the Cost of Equity, we can also take Netflix’s historical and projected Net Income and divide 
it by its Current Equity Value to get an estimated range:  
• Historical  Net Income / Equity Value : 6.0%  
• Projected Year 1 / Equity Value : 6.2%  
• Projected Year 2 / Equity Value : 7.1%  
No matter how we measure it, Equity is more expensive than Debt  – as it normally is for most 
companies.  
Therefore, Netflix should consider 100% debt financing before considering  equity, a mix of debt 
and equity, or convertible bonds.  
But the company may not be able to comply  with its targeted credit stats and ratios  if it issues 
$4 billion of debt right now, so we need to check that by building a model first.  
Step 2: Create Operational Scenarios and a 3-Statement Model  
Creating a full set of operational scenarios requires industry research and a close examination 
of the company’s financial statements, but the quick -and-dirty approach goes like this:  
• Upside Case:  The h ighest revenue growth, operating margins, and Free Cas h Flow; 
above -consensus forecasts for the company and often in  line with management’s overly 
optimistic expectations.  
 
• Base Case:  Slightly lower figures for everything  and similar to the consensus forecasts 
for the company.  
 
• Downside Case:  Slightly lower figures than  the Base Case; this represents what might 
happen if the company underperforms by a fair amount  (e.g., if Netflix keeps losing 
modest numbers of subscribers in future years ). 
 
• Extreme Downside Case:  Significantly lower figures than the Base Case; represents a 
“catastrophic outcome ” where everything goes wrong.  For Netflix, this might mean 
lower  revenue, EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow in 5 years , driven by a significantly lower 
member count by the end (e.g., a 20 -25% drop from current levels).  
As an example, here’s the approach we used for Netflix’s revenue  drivers  (Base Case selected 
below):  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The margins are fairly similar  across the  cases, but they differ  because the Cash Content 
Spending  is linked to the Paid Membership  count.  
The Cash Content Spending does not appear directly on the company’s Income Statement, but 
the Amortization  of it does – and the Amortization is a simple multiple of the annual spending.  
Here’s a summary of the most important drivers and output in the different cases:  
 
The Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement line items are simple percentages of Revenue or 
Operating Expenses; traditional CapEx is much less important than Content Spending for a 
company like Netflix, so it’s not worth forecasting in detail.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We built a full 3 -statement model, but only because the case study instructions asked us to 
do so. It’s more efficient to skip the Balance Sheet projections and build a simple Income 
Statement and partial Cash Flow Statement and track the cash, debt, and equity separately.  
We’re not going to paste in the full 3 -statement model here due to its length, but the Income 
Statement in the Base Case is shown below:  
 
Step 3: Build a Debt Schedule  
Even if we skip the Balance Sheet projections, we still need a Debt Schedule  to plot the 
company’s interest expense and debt principal repayments over time.  
As the first step in this process, we need to set up assumptions for the main financing options: 
debt (unsecured senior notes), follow -on equity, and a convertible bond.  
The model should support any mix of these options:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Follow -On Equity Comps look like this:  
 
From this data, we can tell that a 5% discount to Netflix’s current share price is reasonable 
pricing for the offering . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Also, even if the company issues all $4 billion in equity , that’s still only 5% of its current Market 
Cap, which is in line with the 3 – 11% range in the comps.  
We can start the Debt Schedule with some basic assumptions for the interest rates and 
maturities on the different tranches:  
 
None of this debt has mandatory or optional principal repayments, so the key question is 
simple: does the company ever need to draw on its Revolver or issue additional debt to meet 
its Minimum Cash Balance?  
In most operational cases, the answer is a clear “no.”  
For exam ple, in the Base Case shown below, the company’s cash flow steadily improves, it has 
more than enough cash from the initial capital raises to pay for the $4 billion in maturities, and 
its Minimum Cash Balance (~17% of Revenue) never becomes a major constraint:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
With the Revolver and cash flow mechanics in place, we can now calculate the cash interest, 
commitment fees, and amortization of the issuance fees , which are the components of the 
Interest Expense on the Income Statement : 
 
And then , we can return and link everything on the financial statements:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Step 4: Evaluate the Credit Stats and Ratios in Different Scenarios  
In this step, we evaluate the credit stats and ratios  in different scenarios , focusing on the most 
pessimistic cases (the Downside and Extreme Downside ones here).  
We also know that debt is the cheapest financing source, so we’ll start this exercise by 
assuming 100% debt for the $4 billion issuance.  
None of the company’s existing d ebt has traditional ma intenance covenants, but the 
management team has indicated the following internal targets:  
• Maximum Debt / Total Capital:  50% (on both a book and market value basis)  
• Maximum Debt / EBITDA:  5x 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Minimum EBITDA / Interest:  3x 
• WACC:  Should be minimized while complying with these targets  
The WACC target is almost irrelevant because a $4 billion capital issuance will barely affect a 
company with an Enterprise Value of $94 billion, but debt is cheaper than convertible bonds, 
which are, in turn, cheaper than equity.  
Since Debt / Total Capital must be evaluated based on market value  as well, we need to 
forecast the company’s valuation multiples and capital structure : 
 
We don’t need  the company’s future share price s if it’s a simple debt vs. equity decision, but we 
do need them if we’re also considering convertible bonds and, therefore, must determine if the 
convertible bonds ever convert into equity.  
Here are  the credit stats and ratios in the Downside Case with 100% debt: 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The company approaches the maximum Debt / Total Capital of 50% , and its Debt / EBITDA rises 
above 4x in one year, but the Interest Coverage Ratio does not appear to be a constraint at all.  
However, the ratios look much worse in the Extreme Downside Case:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Because of these breaches, we must  consider alternatives to the 100% debt assumed here.  
We could argue that the Extreme Downside Case is “unlikely,” but lenders always focus on 
“unlikely” cases because they are much more likely to lose money in such cases.  
Before moving on  to these alternate structures in the next section, it’s worth explaining a few 
other metrics used in the model screenshot above:  
• Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR):  This is defined as (Free Cash Flow + Total Interest 
Expense + Lease Payments) / Total Fixed Charges  
“Fixed Charges” usually equal s the Total Interest Expense + Lease Payments + Mandatory Debt 
Principal Repayments (Dividends may also be included for some companies).  
The DSCR’s main advantage is that it’s closer to cash flow  than the EBITDA -based metrics.  
This is  important for Netflix because its Cash Content Spending  shows up mostly on the Cash 
Flow Statement ; only the Amortization of that spending is deducted to calculate EBITDA.  
So, EBITDA / Interest  alone might give us a misleading impression of how well the company can 
service the cash expenses associated with its debt . The DSCR provides an additional way to 
evaluate this.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The DSCR numbers here are very bad  (~0x in the pessimistic cases), and there’s no official 
requirement to evaluate them  because these unsecured senior notes do not have principal 
repayments, so we ignore the DSCR in our final recommendation.  
A related metric is the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (FCCR) , defined as (EBITDA – CapEx – Cash 
Taxes – Dividends) / Fixed Charges.  
The numerator represents the “Free Cash Flow available to cover Fixed Charges,” and the 
denominator represents the required payments for these Fixed Charges.  
The FCCR is quite healthy even in the Extreme Downside Case  because Netflix’s EBITDA is m uch 
higher than its Cash Flow from Operations, so we don’t factor it in here.  
Finally, the “EBITDA Cushion” figures above are based on how much EBITDA would have to fall  
for the company to violate a covenant or targeted credit stat.  
For example, if the company needs $1 billion in EBITDA to avoid exceeding the 5x Debt / EBITDA 
cap, and its EBITDA is currently $1.3 billion, the EBITDA Cushion is $300 million.  
These percentages tell us which credit stats and ratios a re the main constraints . 
Step 5: Consider Alternate Financing Structures if the Company Cannot Comply with the 
Targeted Credit Stats and Ratios  
Since the Debt / EBITDA and Debt / Total Capital ratios are problematic in the Extreme 
Downside Case, the two main alternatives are:  
1) Equity  – For 100% of the offering or a sizable percentage.  
 
2) Convertible Bonds  – The same as above.  
We can rule out the c onvertible bonds for three main reasons : 
1) Constraints  – Convertible bonds help most if the company’s main constraint is 
compliance  with a  targeted EBITDA / Interest level (or related metric) since they offer 
lower cash interest than traditional bonds. But EBITDA / Interest is the least of Netflix’s 
concerns here.  
 
2) Conversion Conditions  – When the convertible bond is initially issued, it count s as debt 
until the company’s share price rises enough to support a conversion into common 
shares . In the Downside and Extreme Downside Cases, this conversion does not happen 
because the company’s share price fall s substantially. So, a convertible bond does 
nothing to reduce the company’s Debt / EBITDA or Debt / Total Capital ratios.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
3) Company Type  – Netflix is at a maturity stage where traditional convertible bond 
investors are less likely to be interested in the company. It may keep growing in the 
future , but it’s almost certainly outside the “high growth” category now. So, it’s difficult 
to pitch this as hedged equity to growth -oriented investors, but it’s also far from a 
traditional fixed -income offering due to the 1% coupon rate.  
Therefore, it’s most realistic to consider a mix of debt and equity  in the next step.  
Here’s a 50 / 50 split in the Extreme Downside Case:  
 
The company still violates the maximum Debt / EBITDA and Debt / Total Capital targets , so let’s 
try a 30% debt / 70% equity split next:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
These credit stats are still questionable  in Year 3 , but they’re close enough to compliance , so we 
could stop here and recommend 30% debt and 70% equity . 
But equity is significantly more expensive than debt, and since EBITDA / Interest is not a key 
constraint for Netflix,  the company doesn’t necessarily gain much by “locking in” lower interest 
rates before they increase.  
Step 6: Consider Other Financing Solutions, Such As Multiple Issuances Over Time   
If we step back and think about this scenario, Netflix’s plan does not make much sense:  
• Most of their debt has fixed coupon rates , so even if central banks increase interest 
rates over the next few years, it doesn’t matte r. And by the time it matures in 5 -10 
years, anything could happen  to overall rates.  
 
• EBITDA / Interest  is the least constr aining of all the credit stats and ratios, while Debt / 
EBITDA  and Debt / Total Capital  are the most constraining. The company’s problem is 
not its Interest Expense but its overall debt level.  
Therefore, it’s more logical for the company  to refinance as needed  when each tranche of debt 
matures.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
To model this scenario, we could do the following:  
• Assume no initial capital raise  in Year 1.  
 
• To simulate higher interest rates  in the future, we can set the fixed coupon rate on 
additional unsecured senior note issuances to 8%. 
 
• And we can modify the Debt Schedule  by deleting the line for “Cash Reserved for 
Upcoming Debt Maturities ”; it’s unnecessary if the company raises new debt as needed.  
Here’s the key part of the Debt Schedule in the Extreme Downside Case:  
 
Netflix draws on its Revolver to the maximum capacity of $1 billion and issues almost $7 billion 
in additional unsecured senior notes with these assumptions.  
Here are the credit stats and ratios:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
25 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Debt / Total Capital Ratio is too high in Year 3, but that’s a minor issue because the 
projected Equity Values are speculative anyway. And we could fix it by setting a small 
percentage of the “Additional Funding Required” each year to equity.  
Our final recommendation to the company might look like this:  
• Plan A:  Refinance as needed, even as interest rates rise. The Interest Coverage Ratio is 
the company’s best metric (~22% cushion even in the Extreme Downside case with 
100% debt); even at a coupon rate of 8% rather than 4%, the company could still easily 
comply with the 3x minimum ICR when using 100% debt. Refina ncing with 100% 
unsecured senior notes only when the existing debt mature s would also make it easier 
to comply with the 5x maximum Debt / EBITDA . The company might still exceed the 50% 
maximum Debt / Total Capital in Year 3 , but this is a fairly minor issu e that could be 
solved by using more equity in the first few years.  
 
• Plan B: Issue $4 billion of capital upfront with a 30% debt / 70% equity split. T his mix 
would allow Netflix to comply with the maximum Debt / EBITDA and Debt / Total Capital 
ratios , even in the Extreme Downside Case. WACC would be slightly higher due to the 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
26 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
70% equity, but the difference would be marginal (~0.1%) since this is a $4 billion 
issuance for a $94 billion Enterprise Value company.  
Addendum:  Covenants vs. “Credit Stats and Ratios”  
In the sections above, we’ve focused on Netflix’s credit stats and ratios.  
We also mentioned the concept of covenants , but we have not explained the precise difference  
between covenants and credit stats.  
In short, le nders always evaluate  credit stats and ratios to assess a company’s overall risk, and 
credit rating agencies use these numbers to determine credit rating s. 
Covenants  are often based on these credit stats and ratios, but they are strict requirement s 
rather than “evaluation criteria.”  
For example : 
• Company A has debt without specific maintenance covenants; only incurrence 
covenants that limit its ability to sell assets and spin off divisions. Its Debt / EBITDA 
increases from 3 .0x to 4 .0x in one year due to a business downturn.  
 
Rating agencies might downgrade  Company A’s credit rating, which makes future 
lending more expensive, but since Company A has not violated  any covenants, lenders 
will not take specific actions.  
 
• Company B has a Term Loan with a maximum Debt / EBITDA covenant of 3.0x. It has 
normally been in the 2.0 – 2.5x range , but it increases to 3.5x  due to a business 
downturn.  
 
Credit rating agencies wou ld still downgrade  the company, making future lending more 
expensive, but the lenders would also take specific actions . For example, they might 
charge a penalty fee for violating the covenant, increase the interest rate on the Term 
Loan, ask for more colla teral, or even require early repayment.  
“Senior” forms of d ebt, such as Revolvers and Term Loans, tend to have maintenance 
covenants with penalties attached if the company violates ratios such as the maximum Debt / 
EBITDA or the minimum EBITDA / Interest . 
“Junior” forms of debt, such as Subordinated Notes and Mezz anine, tend to use incurrence 
covenants that limit the company’s ability to take specific actions instead.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
27 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But no matter what type of covenants are attached to the company’s debt, lenders always 
monitor the credit stats and ratios  and note significant chan ges. 
And credit rating agencies often downgrade companies whose credit stats and ratios worsen, 
even if they haven’t violated any covenants.  
The most common maintenance covenants  are the maximum Leverage Ratio (Debt / EBITDA) 
and the minimum Interest Coverage Ratio (EBITDA / Interest), but many others are possible:  
• Minimum EBITDA  
• Maximum Net Debt / EBITDA  
• Maximum Debt / (EBITDA – CapEx)  
• Maximum Senior Debt / EBITDA  
• Minimum EBITDA / Cash Interest  
• Minimum EBITDA / Senior Debt Interest  
• Minimum Cash or Cash as a % of Total Expenses  
• Minimum Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)  
• Minimum Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio  
Netflix , in the example above , has no covenants because its unsecured senior n otes do not 
specify maximum or minimum numbers for these metrics.  
If it did have official covenants, we would pay even more attention to them and be more 
conservative in our recommendation because it’s much worse for a company to violate a 
covenant than an internally targeted number.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 3: Analysis of Initial Public Offerings (IPOs)  
A company that is not yet public  (i.e., you cannot buy and sell its shares on the stock market)  
can “go public” in an Initial Public Offering (IPO) . 
IPOs have varied structures, but the usual idea is as follows:  
1) The company issues primary shares  (new shares  that investors pay for) at a discount  to 
the company’s expected share price when it begins trading. This discount compensates 
the investors for taking a risk and committing to buy the company’s shares before  it is 
publicly traded.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
28 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
2) Existing investors might also sell  their  secondary shares  – shares that already exist  and 
do not result in cash proceeds to the company  – to new investors.  
 
3) If demand is high enough, there may also be an overallotment option  (a “Greenshoe”) 
that allows the company to sell even more primary and secondary shares.  
 
4) Once investors have committed  to buying shares at the specified price , and the 
company has filed the required paperwork and received approval from government 
regulators, it starts to trade on an exchange such as the NASDAQ or NYSE.  
There is no such thing as a n “IPO valuation.”  
You can build an “IPO model,” but this model is simple and determine s only the company’s 
ownership  after the deal takes place – not its valuation.  
Instead, you use the standard valuation methodologies, with a special focus on the Public 
Comps, to value the company and determine a range of potential share prices in the IPO.  
We’ll cover the bare minimum  required for an IPO model first and expand on it with the 
additional features noted above, such as the sale of secondary shares and the Gre enshoe.  
Step 1: Set Up the Assumptions for the “Minimum Viable” IPO Model  
At the bare minimum, you need the following assumptions to build an IPO model:  
1. Amount of Capital  Raised  – Raising $1 billion of capital creates a different number of 
new shares than $2 billion.  
 
Most companies aim  to sell 20 -40% of their equity in an IPO, but this varies by industry 
and maturity stage. High-growth companies that expect to trade at high multiples might 
sell closer to 5-10%, and very large companies might sell even  less.  
 
2. Valuation Multiples  – You focus on  the forward  multiples  (if the current year is 20X1, 
the 20X2 or 20X3 multiples from the comps)  because most IPOs are pitched based on 
future growth potential . 
 
The logic goes like this : “The Public C omps trade at 20 -25x projected EBITDA , so our 
company should also trade at multiples in that range when it goes public . So, if its 
projected EBITDA is $100 million, its Enterprise Value should be in the $2.0 – $2.5 billion 
range, and we can subtract the Net Debt to calculate its Equity Value. ” 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
29 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
3. Pricing Discount  – To incentivize new investors to buy the company’s shares, the 
company typically sells shares at a discount  to their expected price at trading.  
 
For example, if the company’s expected share price at trading is $15.00 – $20.00, it 
might offer new investors a 10% discount and sell its shares for $13.50 – $18.00 instead.  
 
4. Fees  and Underwriting Discount  – The company going public has to pay the bank(s)  
executing the offering , the lawyers, the SEC or other regulatory organization s, and 
various other parties  such as accountants  and auditors . You can find fee estimates by 
looking at similarly sized recent deals.  
 
The exact numbers change frequently , but on average , a company raising a few hundred 
million USD might pay a fee of 3 -7% to the banks (based on capital raised) and a fixed 
fee of $5 – $10 million to the other parties.  
 
The percentage fee, known as the “Underwriting Discount ,” scales down to much lower 
percentages as the deal size increases, while the fixed fees increase in dollar terms but 
represent increasingly smaller percentages of the capital raised . 
Here are the basic assumptions in our sample model:  
 
Step 2: Calculate the Post -Money Equity Value at Trading and Pricing  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
30 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Start by projecting the company ’s valuation at trading  after it has gone public:  
 
The company is offering new investors a 15% discount , so we factor this in and calculate the 
Equity Value @ Pricing and the Offering Price per Share : 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
31 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Th $250 million offering creates new shares , but we don’t know how many new shares  until we 
calculate the Offering Price per Share.  
All we have is the pre -IPO share count, so for consistency, we subtract in the numerator the 
$250 million in IPO Proceeds that go to the company and increase its Equity Value  
We could stop her e, but it’s also useful to calculate the new shares issued  in the deal and  
factor in possibl e secondary shares  and a Greenshoe  (overallotment) provision.  
Step 3: Determine the Primary , Secondary , and Greenshoe Shares  
Primary Shares  are new shares that represent cap ital raised in the deal . The company gets cash 
for each Primary Share sold.  
Secondary Shares  represent existing investors sellin g their stakes to new investors. No capital is 
raised , and the c ompany receives no cash for these sales.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
32 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Greenshoe  option allows the banks running the deal to sell additional shares if there’s high 
demand. For example, if they plan to sell 10 million shares, a 15% Greenshoe would allow the 
banks to sell an additional 1.5 million shares.  
We can keep the previous two st eps and add a few assumptions  to support these features : 
 
In the next step, we need to calculate the Primary and Secondary Shares sold:  
 
With this information, we can add the 15% Greenshoe provision to determine the total number 
of shares sold in the off ering:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
33 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Since the Greenshoe  increases the capital raised by 15% , the Equity Value figures, Net IPO 
Proceeds, and other metrics also change . 
So, we need to recalculate everything with this Greenshoe included. T he Secondary Shares do 
not affect anything since they do not correspond to new shares or new capital.  
Step 4: Recalculate the Metrics with the Overallotment  Included  
To determine the amount that goes to the company, we take only  the proceeds from the 
Prima ry Shares and subtract the Underwriting Discount and the Deal -Related Fees:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
34 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Due to the Greenshoe, this company ends up selling a higher percentage of itself in the IPO . 
Without the Greenshoe, it would sell between 8% and 12% rather than the 10% to 14% here.  
Step 5: Calculate the Valuation Multiples  
We now have the Post -Money Equity Value at Pricing and Trading after  the Greenshoe, so the 
last step is to calculate the Post -Money Enterprise Value at Pricing and Trading and recalculate  
the valuation multip les. 
The Greenshoe affects the Equity Value metrics  (since it creates new shares) and the Post -
Money Enterprise Value @ Pricing (since the Greenshoe proceeds are part of the TEV bridge).  
The Post -Money Enterprise Value @ Trading stays the same because the higher Cash balance 
offsets the higher Equity Value from the Greensho e: 
 
How to Use This Analysis in Real Life  
We might show this analysis to a client or potential client in a pitch book or other presentation.  
We would focus on the company’s expected valuation  after going public, the percentage it 
sells  in the offering, and the multiples at pricing and trading . 
This model is simple , so we would spend most of our time explaining the assumptions:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
35 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Potential Client Question:  “Why should we offer investors a 15% discount when they 
buy our shares in an IPO?”  
 
• Banker Response:  “Because recent, similar deals in this market have all offered 
investors a 10 -20% discount, and we think it’s a reasonable level for you a s well. The 
market hasn’t responded well to off erings done at lower discounts; they’ve all traded 
down in the weeks after the offering.”  
 
• Potential Client Question:  “Why have you assumed forward revenue multiples of 6x to 
9x for our company? ” 
 
• Banker  Response:  “Because  peer companies in this industry trade at multiples of 4.5x to 
6.5x in the 25th through 75th percentiles, but you are growing more quickly than most of 
the public companies, so we are assuming a premium to that range , as growth tends to 
drive revenue multiples in your industry .” 
 
• Potential Client Question:  “Why do you recommend a 75% Primary and 25% Secondary 
Share allocation? Isn’t it better to issue all new shares and raise more capital? ” 
 
• Banker Response:  “Because th ese figures are standard in recent IPOs, and your venture 
capital investors want to sell some  of their stake s. Selling their entire  stake s would  send 
a negative signal to the market, so it’s best to sell small er portions in this offering  and 
gradually sell the rest over time.  
 
Your existing investors would not be pleased if you limited this offering to Primary 
Shares because they would have to wa it longer to sell their shares, which increases their 
risk.” 
The Alternate IPO Model  
We could set up the IPO model above differently and make the number of Primary and 
Secondary Shares a nd the Offering Price per Share  the key drivers.  
This version is more straightforward and doesn’t require “back ing into” so many numbers.  
But it ’s also more difficult to link the assumptions to reality because we’re not using a range of 
valuation multiples from the comparable companies to determine the Offering Price per Share.  
Here’s a quick overview of each step in this version of the IPO model : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
36 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Primary and Secondary Shares Issued  stay the same, but the Deal Size  changes:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
37 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These differences in the Post -Money Equity Value and Net IPO Proceeds create differences in 
the Enterprise Value figures and valuation multiples:  
 
Anything Else?  
The analyses above are the most important ones for IPOs, but there are a few others:  
• Analysis of Comparable IPO Offerings  – We could look at recent offerings and find the 
median percentage sold, the median pricing and trading multiples, the median Pricing 
Discount, and the median Primary vs. Secondary split . 
 
However, this analysis is not that useful because each deal is different.  An airline 
company that just went public will trade at very  different multiples than an unprofitable 
biotech company.  
 
• Shareholder Analysis  – We could also analyze institutional investors with holdings in 
this sector to recommend new investors to target . 
 
For example, let’s say that our bank is taking a transportation and logistics company 
public. We look at major institutional investors in the U.S. and find several firms with 
holdings in similar companies. But t hese investors do not yet own stakes in our client . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
38 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Based on that, we might recommend that the company meet with these investors since 
they have a demonstrated interest in the sector.  
 
This analysis is more relevant for Follow -On O fferings  because companies rarely have  
broad institutional investor  bases before going public . 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 4: Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs)  
Special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) have emerged as another way for companies to 
go public.  
The process  involves more steps than a traditional IPO, but in practice, it’s faster to execute and 
comes with a reduced regulatory burden.  
That said, there are some clear disadvantages, such as greater  dilution.  
The SPAC process is split into two steps: the IPO of a “blank ch eck” or “holding” company, in 
which it raises capital to acquire a real company, and the acquisition of a real, private company 
(known as the “ De-SPAC”  or “SPAC merger” ). 
The steps in the first phase , the IPO , are as follows:  
1. The “Sponsor” (CEOs, wealthy individuals , celebrities, PE firms, hedge funds, etc.) forms 
a SPAC and purchases warrants to cover the  underwriting fees and other expenses . The 
proceeds from the sale of the warrants cover the underwriting fees.  
 
2. This Sponsor gets a “Promote” for 20% of the SPAC’s equity in exchange for a “nominal 
investment” (e.g., $25,000).  
 
3. The SPAC then goes public and sells units, shares, and warrants to public -market 
investors . 
 
4. The Gross Proceeds from the IPO are kept “in trust” until the SPAC finds a real company 
to acquire or until it dissolves  (it has 18 – 24 months to make an acquisition).  
Here’s the first step:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
39 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The second step – the “De-SPAC” or “SPAC Merger”  – goes like this:  
1. The SPAC identifies a target company and negotiates an acquisition where the target 
company  becomes the majority owner (i.e., a reverse merger) . This happens because 
the SPAC issues a huge amount of stock to acquire the target company.  
 
2. The SPAC shareholders vote on the deal, and if they don’t  like it, they can redeem their 
shares . 
 
3. If the deal is approved, the target company merges into the SPAC and becomes public, 
with the SPAC’s IPO Proceeds going to the company’s Balance Sheet , just like in an IPO.  
 
4. Other investors might also put money into the post -merger SPAC  via a Private 
Investment in Public Equity (PIPE) , so its Cash increases even more . This is similar to the 
“Greenshoe” in a traditional IPO.  
The ownership after this second step look s like this:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
40 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
If we continue with the IPO scenario from the previous section  and assume $287.5 million in 
Gross Proceeds and a company with a ~$2.5 billion Enterprise Value, a SPAC version of the deal 
would look like this:  
 
In theory, granting 5 million “free” or “very cheap ” shares to the Sponsor should reduce the 
SPAC’s share price : the Equity Value and Net Assets stay the same, but the share count 
increases.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
41 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
However, banks typically assume that the share price stays the same after this “Promote,” 
which does not make sense (we haven’t found an explanation).  
The Sponsor now has 5 million shares, the investors who bought the SPAC in the IPO have 20 
million shares , and the Sponsor also has 5 million warrants at an $11.50 exercise price  
(premiums of 10 -20% to the standard $10.00 share price are common).  
Each warrant cost s the Sponsor $1.00, so the total purchase price of $5 million offset s the 2.5% 
upfront underwriting fee (2.5% * $200 million = $5 million).  
In the second step , the newly public SPAC finds and acquires the target company. We’ll assume 
that it does so for the same 7.5x forward revenue multiple:  
 
SPACs vs. IPOs  
If a SPAC is faster to execute (3 -5 months rather than 6 -12+ months) and has a lower regulatory 
burden, why would a company choose to go public via a traditional IPO instead?  
First, the SPAC option often produces greater dilution  than a traditional IPO.  
Both methods result in some dilution because new shares are sold to new investors, but:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
42 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• IPO:  The “Pricing Discount” allows new investors to buy a small portion  of the 
company’s shares at a very modest discount  (10-20%).  
 
• SPAC:  The “Sponsor Promote” gives shares away for free or almost free , resulting  in 
lower ownership percentages for the target company.  
Second, companies that go public via SPACs are often perceived  to be lower -quality since 
regulatory agencies like the SEC haven’t vetted them  in the same way ; the best companies tend 
to prefer the IPO route.  
Finally, stock -price performance  is often worse for SPACs due to these issues (though it 
depends on the period and screening criteria).  
Here’s a side -by-side comparison  of the post -deal dilution:  
 
The “IPO Pricing Discount” for $428 million above may seem like a huge difference, but it’s only 
applied to the cash purchase  of 10 -15% of the company’s shares . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
43 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The company’s Post -Money Equity Value @ Trading is nearly the same, and the existing 
shareholde rs own a slightly higher percentage following a traditional IPO.  
We have not discussed the risk/reward for the investors who buy the SPAC’s shares at $10.00 
when it goes public, but in short, the odds are heavily against these investors.  
Since the Sponsor paid almost nothing for its shares, it could walk away from the deal with a 
profit even if the company’s $10.00 share  price falls by 80 -90% . 
But the normal investors who bought shares for $10.00 each get no such benefit – they’re 
down by 8 0-90%.  
And yes: these investors could simply buy the shares at $10.00, wait for the deal 
announcement, and sell if there is a “pop” after the announcement but before the deal close.  
There’s nothing wrong with that strategy, but it’s essentially all specula tion, so it’s not 
comparable to buying and holding shares sold in a traditional IPO.  
SPAC performance has been “mixed” at best, and while IPO performance isn’t great, either, the 
transparency and incentives are both better.  
It’s worth knowing about SPACs if you’re going to work in a group like ECM, but for most 
legitimate companies, the disadvantages rarely justify the benefits.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 5: Analysis of Follow -On Offerings (FOs)  
Follow -On Offerings (FOs) are similar  to Initial Public O fferings, but the process and model 
drivers are slightly  different.  
The process is faster and simpler because the company is already public  – regulator s don’t 
need to review and approve the company’s filings in the same way.  
It’s also more important to look at comparable issuances  because they include more details 
that apply to all industries and deals.  
Here are the steps when analyzing a potential Follow -On Offering  for a company:  
Step 1: Review Comparable Follow -On Issuances  
As in IPOs, companies that issue E quity in FOs typically do so at a discount . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
44 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But since the company is already public, this is a discount to its current share price  (or 30 -day 
average, 1 -year average, etc.) rather than its expected share price.  
For example, if the company’s current share price is $50.00, it might issue new shares to 
investors  at $45.00, representing a 10% discount.  
This discount incentivize s investors to buy new shares  in large quantities . 
The company is already public , so these investors could wait and buy shares on the open 
market for $50.00  each.  
But if they get a 10% discount, they might buy more shares  than would normally be available, 
which also helps the company raise additional capital.  
This Offering Price Discount  is listed in the Comparable Follow -On Issuances ; other metrics 
include:  
• Deal Size % Market Cap:  Did other companies sell a median of 20%? 10%? 5%?  
 
• Primary vs. Secondary Split:  Companies sell both types of shares in FOs. As in IPOs, 
Primary Shares are new shares  issued by the company, and Secondary Shares are 
existing shares sold b y existing investors  to new investors . 
 
• Price Performance:  How did companies’ stock  price s perform  in the months or years 
after the deal s? Did they increase by a median of 10%? Decline by 5%? Stay about the 
same?  
We screen  for comparable FO issuances the same way we screen for Precedent Transactions: 
industry, geography, size, and time.  
“Size” refers to the size of the offering ; we can’t compare a $10 million offering from a small -
cap biotech company to a $10 billion offering from a multinational conglomerate.  
Here’s our screen in an example Follow -On Offering analysis for Netflix:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
45 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
We didn’t list the Primary vs. Secondary splits here because all but one of these issuances 
consisted of 100% Primary Shares.  
Step 2: Make Assumptions for the Funds Raised, Discount, Greenshoe, and Fees  
The funds raised  in a Follow -On Offering are tied  to the company’s plans.  
Companies tend to sell lower percentage s in FOs than in IPOs because they’re more mature, 
need less capital, and want to avoid excessive dilution.  
Also, there may not be as many existing investors – such as VC and PE firms –looking to realize 
gains in FO s. 
These investors tend to sell their stakes gradually over time, so a Follow -On Offering doesn’t 
help them much, as the IPO already provided the liquidity required to sell their stakes.  
We might check quickly  to make sure the Deal Size  as a % of Marke t Cap is a reasonable figure ; 
for example, if the median is 8%, as shown above, Netflix should not try to sell 25% or 40% in a 
Follow -On Offering.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
46 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The underwriting discount  (fee percentage paid to banks) is much lower in FOs because far les s 
work is required , as the company is already public and has institutional investors.  
However, the fees in dollars are often higher  than in an IPO because most Follow -On Offerings 
are bigger than most Initial Public Offerings.  
So, expect higher fixed expenses such as SEC filing/registration fees, printing fees, and 
accounting/legal fees; these might represent 10 -25% of the underwritin g discount.  
The Primary  vs. Secondary split depends on why the company is issuing Equity , but if the 
company needs money for expansion s, acquisitions, or D ebt repayment, the offering will be 
mostly Primary Shares.  
Finally, the Greenshoe Option still exists for FOs, and the Greenshoe Shares  could use the same 
Primary / Secondary split as in the Base Offering or something different:  
 
Step 3: Calculate the Post -Money Shares Outstanding and Equity Value  
Similar to the “Alternate IPO Model” in the IPO section , the key driver in a Follow -On Model is 
the Offering Price . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
47 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Unlike in the Alternate IPO Model, however, we assume a range of Offering Prices at different  
discounts  to the company’s current share price.  
Then, we determine the Shares I ssued based on the Funds Raised and these Offering Prices 
(e.g., $1 billion raised at a $20.00 Offering Price equals 50 million S hares  Issued ). 
Here’s the first part of the model:  
 
Step 4: Calculate the Net Proceeds, % Company Sold, and Valuation Multiples  
Similar to the first version of the IPO model, the deal size  does not change based on the 
Offering Price here.  
If the Discount is higher, the company issues more shares, and if it’s lower, it issues fewer 
shares. But the total capital raised stays the same.  
The proceeds the company receives are linked  to the Primary Shares  it sells  in this offering.  
These Gross Primary Proceeds and the Net Proceeds also stay the same regardless of the Pricing 
Discount . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
48 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We calculate the Post -Money Equity Value and Enterprise Value at Pricing and Trading the 
same way as in the IPO Model:  
 
We might compare the valuation multiples to those of the comparable public companies to 
explain the consequences of different Pricing D iscounts to the management team.  
For example, at a 0% Pricing Discount, the multiples might be above those of the public comps , 
but at a 20% Discount, they might be below the median values from the comps.  
Step 5: Calculate the Cost of Equity at Different Discounts  
For most companies, Equity  is the most expensive financing method because the risk and 
potential returns exceed those of Debt and Preferred Stock; also, Equity lacks the tax 
advantages of Debt.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
49 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Cost of Convertible Bonds – if calculate d accurately using the “blended” method  – is usually 
between the Cost of Debt and the Cost of Equity.  
However, the Pricing Discount in a Follow -On Offering may alter these rules  of thumb.  
At higher Discounts, Equity becomes more expensive  because issuances create more dilution, 
and the spread  between the Cost of Equity and the Cost of Convertible Bonds also increases – 
at lower share prices, the Convertible Bonds are closer to normal Debt.  
So, if we think the company will have to issue Follow -On Equity at a significant discount , such as 
more than 3 -5%, it’s worth running a quick analysis to see how the relative pricing changes.  
Netflix here has the following financing options:  
• Option #1:  Equity , likely at a ~5% pricing discount.  
 
• Option #2:  Unsecured senior notes at a 4.0% coupon rate.  
 
• Option #3:  Convertible bonds at a 1. 0% coupon rate and 30% conversion premium  
($247.73 conversion price).  
The After -Tax Cost of Debt barely changes at different Pricing Discounts, so we assume it stays 
the same at 4.0% * (1 – 25.0%  Tax Rate ) = 3.2% in all cases.  
It’s tricky to calculate the Cost of the Convertible Bonds because we have to separate them into 
the “traditional bond” component and the “call option” component and use Black -Scholes to 
value the call option separately.  
We cover that in the last section of this guide on Convertible Bonds ; for now, we will us e the 
output of that analysis in the comparison table below to illustrate how the Cost falls as the 
Pricing Discount goes from 0% to 25%.  
Finally, for the Cost of Equity, we could use the CAPM method and recalculate it based on the 
company’s changed capita l structure at each Pricing Discount.  
However, this would produce the Cost of Equity for the entire company , which would barely 
change after a $4 billion issuance (Netflix had an $85 billion Equity Value at this time).  
It would be more useful to calculate the Cost of Equity for this specific issuance  based on the 
Pricing Discount.  
We can do that with the alternate formula for the Cost of Equity: Net Income / Equity Value (we 
use the Year 1 Projected Net Income here).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
50 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here’s the comparison:  
 
Based on these results, we might tell the client  (Netflix)  the following : 
• The Unsecured Senior Notes are still the cheapest financing option, and assuming you 
can comply with the targeted credit stats and ratios ( and any covenants), they should be 
your first choice.  
 
• If you can issue Follow -On Equity at a very low Pricing Discount (e.g., 0 -5%), it’s cheaper 
than Convertible Bonds or about the same, so that is your next best option.  
 
• If the Pricing Discount is much higher, or if you prefer the Unsecured Senior Notes but 
cannot comply with possible Interest Coverage Ratio restrictions, the Convertible Bonds 
might be the best option.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
51 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These conclusions/recommendations are a bit artificial  because a company like Netflix cares 
mostly about WACC for the entire company , not the cost of one $4 billion issuance.  
No matter which financing option the company pursues, WACC  for the entire company  barely 
changes, so other factors, such as covenant compliance and the desire to avoid dilution , will 
play a bigger role.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 7: Bond Yields, Pricing, Duration, and Convexity  
If you’re analyzing a primary Debt issuance , i.e., new Debt the company issues to raise cash 
from investors, everything is straightforward.  
For example, let’s assume that a company wants to issue a $1 billion 5-year bond with a 6% 
fixed coupon rate . 
To analyze the issuance, y ou would add $60 million of interest  on the Income Statement , 
evaluate the credit stats and ratios in different cases , and explain whether the company can 
comply with its targeted credit stats after issuing this bond.  
You would build in different operational scenarios to evaluate the worst -case outcome, but you 
would  not do much analysis of the bond itself  – just its impact on the financial statements.  
Bond analysis in the secondary market gets more complicated  because the bond’s market 
price changes as the company and the external environment change, and you have to 
consider factors such as early repayments  and changing interest rates.  
The “secondary market” consists of investors buying and selling bonds from and to other 
investors.  
And just as a company’s stock price changes, the market price s of a company’s bond s also 
change . 
Let’s continue with the example above and assume the following terms for the company’s new 
issuance:  
• Principal (Par Value):  $1 billion  (shown as $1,000 in Excel below)  
• Coupon Rate:  6.0% (fixed) with semiannual payments  
• Maturity:  5 years  
• Settlement Date (Issuance Date):  2022 -12-31 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
52 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Prevailing Yields on Similar Bonds (the Discount Rate) : 6.0%  
• Probability of Repaying the Full $1 Billion Upon Maturity:  100.0% (no default risk)  
We can value this bond the same way we value any other asset: by discounting its future cash 
flows to Present Value at the appropriate Discount Rate and summing them up . 
 
Notice the specific language above: “prevailing yields”  on other, similar bonds, not the “coupon 
rates” or “interest rate s” on those bonds.  
This distinction matters because when an investor buys a bond in the secondary market, they 
earn the bond’s yield  – the interest the bond pays plus  any changes in its market price 
between the purchase date and the bond’s maturity.  
Yields on bonds do follow the overall trends in broader interest rates, but they are not t he 
same as  “interest rates” or “coupon rates” because yields also reflect the changes in market 
price s from purchase to maturity.  
To illustrate this concept, let’s consider a scenario where, right after issuance, prevailing yields 
on similar bonds increase from 6% to 7%  because central banks have just raised overall rates.  
As a result of this change, this bond’s market price will fall  because investors now  have better 
options elsewhere . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
53 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Why buy a n old bond with a 6% coupon rate when they could buy a new bond with a 7% rate  
when the risk profiles and maturities are the same ? 
Here’s what happens in Excel:  
 
The bond’s market price dropping from $1,000 to $958 is significant because it affects the 
company’s financing and refinancing options . 
For example, if the company wanted to refinance and replace this bond with a new issuance 
before the maturity date, investors would no longer accept a 6% coupon  rate. 
They would accept that coupon rate only if the company issued the bond at a discount to par 
value : in other words, if investors could buy the bond for $ 958 rather than $1,000.  
If the company did not offer this “original issue discount, ” it would have to offer a 7% coupon 
rate to match the yields on similar bonds . 
The issuer’s probability of repaying the bond in full upon maturity  (its creditworthiness) also 
affect s the market price, but in practice, this probability is assumed to be 100% for healthy 
companies.  
This point is more of a factor for stressed and distressed companies with a broader range of 
potential outcomes.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
54 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here are the extra items to consider when analyzing bonds that a company has already issued  
and that currently trade in the secondary markets:  
1) Market Prices  – See the example above.  
 
2) Timing  – Some bonds pay interest  quarterly , some pay it semiannually , and some pay it 
annually.  
 
3) Accrued Interest  – If an investor buys a bond between interest payment  dates , they also 
have to pay for the interest the bond has accrued  up to that point.  
 
4) Call,  Put, and Conversion Options  – Companies can sometimes repay bonds early 
(“calling the bond”), but they must pay a premium or penalty fee . Investors can also 
force  a company to repay a bond early  via a put option . And Convertible Bonds allow 
investors to exchange their bonds for common shares if the company’s share price 
reaches a certain level.  
 
5) Warrant and Equity Options  – Some bonds have equity options attached; for example, a 
company might issue a bond that grants investors 5% of the company’s equity upon 
maturity (often to compensate them for a reduced coupon rate).  These are major 
factors for stressed and distressed companies  but are less important for others.  
When advising clients, bankers analyze bonds primarily to complete the following tasks:  
1) To Compare and Recommend Financing Options  – Similar to the approach in Key Rule 
#2 with operational scenarios and credit stats and ratios, we can also calculate bond 
prices and yields in different scenarios and use them to make recommendations.  
 
2) To Compare and Recommend Refinancing Options  – If a company wants to refinance 
its bonds , it is essential to know the effective yield  that investors are currently earning 
and the risks they are assuming ( default risk, interest -rate risk, illiquidity risk, etc.).  
For example, let’s assume that a client has $1 billion of 10 -year bonds with an 8% coupon rate 
and a 103% “redemption  premium ” if it calls the bond before the maturity date.  
So, the client can repay these bonds early, but it has to pay 3% extra  – $1.030 billion instead  of 
$1.000  billion – to do so.  
After  the company issued  the bonds, overall interest rates fell, so it believes it c ould  issue new 
10-year bonds at a lower coupon rate and reduce its cash interest expense . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
55 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This client approaches us with the following questions:  
1) Is it worth it?  Given the penalty fee and the potentially lower coupon rate , should the 
company refinance  now ? Does the reduced interest expense justify paying for the 
penalty fee?  
 
2) If so,  what are the most appropriate terms for the new $1 billion issuance ? What 
coupon rate should the company offer? If the new bond is callable, what should the call 
protection period and redemption premiums be?  
The next few sections in this Key Rule will explain how to answer these questions.  
The Basics: Interest Rates, Prices, and Yields  
In the previous few pages, we demonstrated how bond prices  are affected by “overall interest 
rates” or prevailing yields on similar bonds (the Discount Rate) : when the Discount Rate goes 
up, bond pr ices go down, and when the Discount Rate goes down, bond prices go up.  
As with any other asset, future cash flows are worth less  when the Discount Rate is higher 
because investors have better options elsewhere (and vice versa).  
If we consider only  the Discount Rate and the bond’s coupon rate  and assume that everything 
else remains constant, the following relationships hold:  
• Discoun t Rate  > Bond Coupon Rate:  The b ond trades at a discount  to par value (e.g., 
$950 rather than $1,000)  because investors have better options elsewhere.  
 
• Discount Rate  < Bond Coupon Rate:  The b ond trades at a premium  to par value (e.g., 
$1,050 rather than $1,000)  because this bond is more appealing than other options.  
 
• Discount Rate  = Bond Coupon Rate:  The b ond trades at its par value ; other options are 
the same as this bond . 
In theory, the company’s default probability  also factors in, but, again, for non -distressed 
companies, this is normally assumed to be 0%. Therefore,  the bond’s coupon rate and the 
Discount Rate make the biggest impact on the price of a healthy company’s bond.  
To measure how much investors are earning on a bond, we calculate its yield . 
There are many yield -based metrics, but a few of the most important ones include the Current 
Yield  and the Yield to Maturity (YTM).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
56 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Current Yield  represents the percentage of the bond’s current market price that you 
would earn in interest each year  if you bought the bond today.  
Here’s an example:  
• Bond Par Value:  $1,000 (Company issued it at this price)  
• Coupon Rate:  6.0%  
• Current Market Price:  $950  
• Current Yield  = (6.0% * $1,000) / $950 = 6.3%  
Since the bond trades at a discount  to par value, its Current Yield exceeds its coupon rate.  
Most likely, the bond trades at a discount because interest rates rose  after the company issued  
it, so investors are no longer willing to pay full price  – as they can now buy similar bonds with 
higher coupon rates elsewhere.  
The Current Yield tells us how much investors would earn on a bond if they bought it today and 
held it for a year.  
But most bond analysis focuses on the Yield to Maturity (YTM) , which measures the annualized 
average yield if we buy a bond at its current market price and hold it until maturity.  
More for mally, t he YTM is the internal rate of return (IRR)  on a bond  if we buy it at its current 
market price, and it uses many of the same assumptions as IRR:  
• Assumption #1:  We hold the bond until maturity rather than selling it early.  Also, the 
company does not repay the bond early.  
 
• Assumption #2:  The company pays all coupon (interest) and principal payments  in full , 
including the final maturity , on the scheduled dates.  
 
• Assumption #3:  We reinvest the cash flows earned on the bond and earn the YTM on 
them.  
The YTM does not necessarily correspond to reality  because at least one of these assumptions 
is often false in real life.  
However, it’s a standard method used to quote bond prices , and it’s essential to know the 
definition because all bond analysis references it.  
We can calculate the Yield to Maturity with the YIELD  function in Excel, the IRR or XIRR 
function s, or the “quick and dirty method.”  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
57 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here are the inputs to the YIELD function:  
=YIELD(Settlement Date, Maturity Date, Coupon Rate, Bond Price % Par Value Out of the 
Number 100, Bond Redemption Value % Par Value Out of the Number 100, Coupon Frequency)  
For example, if we purchase a bond on 20 22-12-31, it matures on 202 7-12-31, it has a coupon 
rate of 6%  paid semiannually, its current market price is 101% of par value, and the company is 
expected to repay the bond in full upon maturity, we would calculate  the YTM like this:  
=YIELD(“12/31/20 22”, “12/31/2027 ”, 6%, 101,  100,  2) = 5. 767% 
We pay a slight premium for this bond, so our annualized yield is slightly  less than the 6% 
coupon rate.  
We can also approximate the YTM with this formula:  
 
In this example, we could enter these numbers : 
= ($60 + ($1,000 – $1,010) / 5) / (($1,000 + $1,010) / 2)  
= ($60 – $2) / $1,005 = 5. 771% 
It’s a decent approximation because the Redemption Value and the Bond Price are almost the 
same, and the bond’s maturity is only 5 years away.  
The intuition  for this formula is that each year, we earn the interest PLUS a gain  on the bond (if 
purchased at a discount) or a loss  on the bond (if purchase d at a premium).  
These gains or losses must be “amortized” or distributed over the holding period to get annual 
numbers.  
And we earn this annual amount on the “average” of the initial Bond Price and the amount we 
earn back upon maturity  (the Redemption Value).  
So, we take this annual interest, add it to the average annualized gain or loss, and divide it by 
the average bond price to approximate the YTM.  
One Final Note:  IRR or XIRR will produce slightly different results for the YTM because Excel 
assumes continuous or daily compounding, but it compounds much less frequently in the YIELD 
function.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
58 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here are a few examples of how the Current Yield and YTM change based on the Discount Rate  
and the bond ’s coupon rate:  
Scenario #1: The Discount Rate Exceed s the Bond’s Coupon Rate  
 
Scenario #2: The Discount Rate Is Below the Bond’s Coupon Rate  
 
Bond Relationships , Duration, and Convexity  
We can expand on these concepts and plot some key relationships in graphical form as well.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
59 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, bond prices  and the Discount Rate  move in opposite directions , but it’s not linear . 
A falling Discount Rate  make s a bigger impact than a rising one , so the relationship is convex : 
 
As the Discount Rate decrease s, the discount factors in the Present Value formula decrease 
more quickly, increasing  the bond’s market price  non-linearly.  
As the coupon rate increase, the bond’s market 
price increases, which is intuitive and more of a 
linear relationship.  
We can also summarize the previous section about 
premium or discount bonds as follows:  
• Discount Bond:  YTM > Current Yield > 
Coupon Rate  
 
• Bond at Par:  YTM = Current Yield = Coupon 
Rate  
 
• Premium Bond:  Coupon Rate  > Current Yield > YTM  
Bonds with higher coupon rates  are less sensitive to changes in the Discount Rate because 
bondholders earn more during the holding period.  
A graph of 7% vs. 15% 8-year bond  prices vs. the Discount Rate might look like this:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
60 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Time to Maturity  also affects bond prices  because bonds with longer -term maturities are  
more sensitive to changes in the Discount Rate : 
 
The intuition is that more terms  in the Present Value formula for the bond’s price will be 
affected by a different Discount Rate, and there will be a greater overall impact due to 
compounding.  
Beyond these relationships, we can also predict how quickly a b ond’s price will change  as the 
Discount Rate changes.  
A bond’s Duration  is the first derivative of the bond’s price with respect to  the YTM ( i.e., 
prevailing  yields on similar bonds or the Discount Rate ). 
Duration  tells us how  the bond’s price will change as the Discount Rate changes.  
A bond’s Convexity  is the second derivative of the bond’s price with respect to  the YTM.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
61 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It tells us how  quickly  the bond’s price will change as the Discount Rate changes .  
To use a physics analogy, Duration  is like velocity  (an object’s “speed” ), and Convexity  is like its 
acceleration  (how quickly its velocity is changing ). 
Intuitively, Duration  tells us the weighted -average number of years it takes for the market 
price of a bond to be repaid  with its internal cash flows . 
For example, if a company issues a 10 -year, zero -coupon bond, the Duration is 10 years  
because the bond investors receive no cash flow s until maturity.  
But if the company issues a 10 -year, 5% coupon bond, the Duration is less than 10 years  
because the bond investors earn cash flows from the interest before the maturity.  
We can calculate the Duration by taking the Present Value of each cash flow from the bond, 
multiplying each one by the time it is received (e.g., 8 .0 for Year 8), adding  up these terms , and 
dividing them by the bond’s current market price : 
 
In practice, it’s much easier to use the built -in Excel formula:  
=DURATION(Settlement  Date,  Maturity  Date,  Coupon  Rate,  Discount Rate , Frequency ) 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
62 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In the example above, if we assume  a Discount Rate of 7 %, we could write : 
=DURATION(“12/31/20 22”, “12/31/2027 ”, 6%, 7%, 2) = 4.38  
So, the investor would need 4.4 years to earn back the upfront bond price of $958.  
This “4.4 years” figure is not literal : the investor receives only $ 60 in interest each year, so they 
won’t earn back everything  until  the bond matures in Year 5. 
But the Duration is a weighted average , which is why it’s less than 5. 
The Duration decreases  as the Discount Rate increase s, and it decreases  as the Time to 
Maturity  decreases:  
 
With the Discount Rate relationship, higher Discount Rates  reduce a bond’s market price.  
But the annual coupon stays the same, so with a lower  upfront price, it takes less time  for an 
investor to earn back the initial investment.  
Finally, the Duration decreases  as the bond’s 
coupon rate increases because investors earn 
more cash flows from the bond during the 
holding period.  
We could use the Duration or variants  such as 
the Modified Duration , equal to Duration / (1 
+ Discount Rate  / Frequency ), to predict  a 
bond’s price, but few people use it that way 
in real life.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
63 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Instead, Duration is a measure of the bond’s interest -rate risk . 
If a bond has a longer Duration, the investor is more exposed to the risk of overall interest rates 
increasing, which will increase prevailing yields on similar bonds (the Discount Rate) and reduce 
the bond’s market price.  
We can also use Duration to compare the interest -rate risk of traditional and zero -coupon 
bonds: a bond’s market  price  is always affected by the Discount Rate even if it pays no interest.  
We can also go beyond Duration and calculate the Convexity  of a bond, which is the second 
derivative of the bond’s price with respect to  the YTM.  
The full derivation is based on a Taylor series expansion  (far beyond the scope of the guide – 
you can Google it or take a math course), but, essentially, Convexity  can predict a bond’s price 
more accurately than Duration.  
That happens because the bond’s price vs. the 
Discount Rate is not a linear relationship : 
there’s more of an effect when the Discount 
Rate falls from 4% to 0% than when i t rises from 
6% to 10%. 
As shown on the right, the price -yield curve 
flattens out  when the Discount Rate increases, 
which means that the Convexity also decreases.  
If the Discount Rate decreases, the Convexity increases because the price -yield curve becomes 
steeper.  
Lower -coupon bonds have a higher Convexity than higher -coupon bonds for the same reason : 
market prices of bonds change more quickly as the Discount Rate change s. 
Zero-coupon bonds have the highest  Convexity since they’re the most sensitive to the Discount 
Rate, as the investor earns no cash flows before maturity . 
There is no built -in Excel function for Convexity, so we must  calculate it manually.  
The normal method is to take the Present Value of ea ch cash flow a bond generates, multiply it 
by (Period ^  2 + Period) (e.g., 2  ^ 2 + 2 = 6 for Year 2), and add up all these “convexity terms.”  
Then, we divide this sum by Bond Price * (1 + Discount Rate) ^ 2:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
64 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Convexity here is 22.1, which lets us predict bond prices  more accurately : 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
65 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
How to Use These Concepts in Real Life  
We would never  show a client a graph based on these concepts , but we might use them to 
explain how investors think  about a company’s bonds.  
For example, let’s say that a client has a 7% coupon rate  10-year bond  with a Modified Duration 
of 7.25.  
After the company issued  the bond, interest rates fell , and the prevailing yields on similar bonds 
went from 5.5% to 3.5%, so the company wants to refinance and reduce its interest payments.  
Since the old bond had a coupon rate 1.5% above the Discount Rate , the company believes it 
can issue a new bond  at a 5.0% coupon rate, assuming the same spread.  
But with these assumptions, the Modified Duration of a 5.0% coupon bond is 7.95 – almost a 
year longer than the original bond.  
As a result, investors who buy this new bond will assume more interest -rate risk, and this 
change will affect their entire portfolios.  
The existing investors, therefore, might be reluctant to buy this new issuance because of the 
additional risk.  
The company might get better results by issuing a 9-year bond  at a 5.0% coupon rate. It would 
have a Modified Duration of 7.30, which is much closer to the original 7.25.  
Purchase Timing and Accrued Interest  
Up until now, we’ve been assuming that the Settlement Date  (purchase date) of a bond is the 
same as its coupon payment date.  
For example, if the bond pays interest on June 30th and December 31st each year, we allow 
purchases only on June 30th and December 31st. 
But that is not true in real life because investors can buy bonds on any date . 
So, if they buy a bond on May 31st when its next coupon payment is June 30th, they will not earn 
the full coupon payment.  
Instead, they will have to pay for the Accrued Interest  that has built up between January 1st and 
May 31st, resulting  in a lower net payment to the investors in this first period.  
The built -in Excel functions , such as YIELD, PRICE, and DURATION , include the Accrued Interest 
in the output.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
66 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But if we’re plotting a bond’s cash flows in Excel, we have to adjust either the interest 
payments or the upfront purchase price to account for the Accrued Interest:  
 
But there are other ways to handle this: we could calcul ate the “Dirty Price”  by taking the 
bond’s “Clean Price” (the $1,068 above) and adding the Accrued Interest of $20.7:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
67 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This “Dirty Price” represents the total amount an investor would pay for this bond on May 18th 
if they purchase d the bond from another investor at its market price.  
We can use the COUPPCD (Coupon Previous Coupon Date) and YEARFRAC functions in Excel to 
calculate the Accrued Interest:  
=Coupon  Rate  * Bond  Par Value  * YEARFRAC(COUPPCD(Settlement  Date,  Maturity  Date,  
Frequency,  0), Settlement  Date,  0) 
The “Dirty Price” keeps increasing in between the coupon payment dates to reflect the Accrued 
Interest, but the Clean Price stays the same  in between coupon payments:  
 
In short: be VERY  careful of the bond price used in the se calculations.  
In the U.S. bond markets, prices from  sources like Bloomberg, FactSet, and Reuters almost 
always quote the “Clean Prices” and, therefore, exclude the Accrued Interest.  
But in European markets, the price quotes are generally for “Dirty Prices ”; since most European 
bonds pay annual coupons , the Accrued Interest is more significant.  
The “Dirty Price” is the total amount an investor would pay to purchase a bond from another 
investor, but the “Clean Pric e” is more useful for analytical purposes, such as in many of the 
abovementioned calculations . 
When in doubt, ask for clarification and make sure you’re using the correct price.  
Return to Top . 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
68 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 8: Options, Call Premiums , and Make -Whole Provisions  
Advising companies on their financing options is all about trade -offs. 
One type of Debt might be cheaper initially, but it could be more expensive in the long run 
because of the company’s financial performance.  
One bond might offer a higher coupon rate , but also a higher chance of default.  
And one bond might offer a shorter maturity and less in terest -rate risk, but also a lower yield.  
Call and put o ptions  offer another set of trade -offs by giving investors and companies the 
ability to get out early.  
This ability to “get out early” means that the coupon rate  and other terms on the bond will 
change as well.  
For example, maybe a company wants to issue a $1 billion 10-year bond at a coupon rate of 8%, 
but it believes that overall interest rates (“prevailing yields on similar bonds”) will decline 
significantly over the next few years.  
Management believes they can issue a new bond at a coupon rate of 5% in a few years and 
save $30 million per year in interest expense if prevailing yields have falle n by then . 
Therefore, the management team requests the ability to “call the bond” before its official 
maturity in 10 years so that they can refinance at this potentially lower coupon rate.  
That’s great for the company because it saves them $30 million per year, but it’s bad news for 
the bond investors because:  
1) They’ll have to spend time and money looking for another way to deploy their capital.  
 
2) They’ll almost certainly get a lower yield when they redeploy their capital because 
interest rates will have fallen.  
So, if the company makes this request to attach a call option  to the bond, the bond investors 
will respond by asking for something that increases their yield and compensates them for  the 
additional risk  – such as a higher coupon rate , an original issue discount (OID) , or a penalty fee  
for early repayment.  
With this call option attached, the bond investors will also focus on the Yield to Call (YTC)  
calculation, which is similar to the YTM , but based on a full repayment before maturity , 
including special terms such as the penalty fees.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
69 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Even when a bond is callable , there are always limits on how  early  a company can repay it.  
A typical pattern for a bond with a 10 -year maturity might be the following:  
1) Years 1 – 3: No early repayment is allowed . 
2) Year 4:  Early repayment is allowed, but the company has to repay 105% of the bond’s 
par value (i.e., pay 5% extra to do it).  
3) Year 5:  Same, but now it’s 104% of the par value.  
4) Year 6:  103%.  
5) Year 7:  102%.  
6) Year 8:  101%.  
7) Years 9 and 10:  100%.  
The figures such as 105%, 104%, and 103% are known as redemption premiums  or call 
premiums . 
This structure protects inves tors and discourages companies from refinancing long before the 
bond’s maturity.  
But even with this structure, callable bonds still tend to offer higher coupon rates  to investors 
because a small penalty fee of 1 -5% paid in one year is rarely enough to boost the Yield to Call 
to a much higher level.  
Some bonds also come with put options  attached.  
These options let investors force  an early redemption of a bond, usually at its par value.  
In other words, investors could go to the company and say, “You borrowed $1 billion from us a 
few years ago, and we said you could repay it in 10 years. But we want it back early. Please 
repay us  now . Thanks!”  
Investors usually request a put option on a bond if they believe that overall interest rates will 
rise, meaning that comparable  bonds’ yields will increase.  
If the Discount Rate increases , investors would be stuck with a lower -yielding bond when they 
could earn more with newer issuances.  
Put options  reduce investors’ risk, so bonds with put options  (“putable bonds”)  offer lower 
coupon rates  or other terms that reduce the yield, such as an original issue premium (OIP) . 
Besides call and put options, there are also conversion options  for bonds, which we cover  in 
Key Rule #2  (and in the last section of this guide ). 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
70 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Convertible Bonds have much lower coupon rates than traditional bond s because the potential 
ability to convert the bond into common shares offers significant value.  
Convertible Bonds often pay no coupon at all  (“zero -coupon bonds”) , and investors treat them 
as hedged equity investments.  
If the company’s stock price never reaches the Conversion Price, the investors lose nothing: the 
Convertible Bonds mature , and the investors get their full principal back.  
But if the company’s stock price does reach the Conversion Price, the investors can convert 
their bonds into common shares  and realize a significant gain  by doing so.  
Some bonds also offer warrants  or equity options , especially if the company is stressed or 
distressed and needs to negotiate lower interest  rates . 
For example, a bond might offer a reduced cou pon rate of 5% rather than the previous rate of 
10%. To compensate investors , the bond might also grant them 1% of the company’s equity 
upon maturity  or early repayment.  
Another bond might offer investors 2% of the company’s equity upon maturity, but only if the 
company’s stock price exceeds the stock price when the investors initially purchased t he bond.  
These concepts rarely apply to investment -grade bonds (ones issued by companies with higher 
credit ratings) because these bonds tend not to be callable. Or , if they are callable, they have 
extremely high redemption premiums  that discourage early repayment.  
The features above are more common for non-investment -grade bonds  (high yield or 
distressed bonds)  – the offerings that groups such as Leveraged Finance advise on.  
The Analysis of Bonds with Call and Put Options  
If a bond is callable, we can calculate its Yield to Call (YTC) , which represents the investor’s IRR 
if the company redeems the bond before maturity at the stated call premium.  
We can still use the YIELD function to calculate the Yield to Call , but the inputs differ.  
Below, we’ll walk through an example for one of Netflix ’s $1 billion bond s that was issued  at a 
4.875 % fixed coupon rate.  
We purchase  this bond  ~8 years  before its maturity date . Since prevailing yields on similar 
bonds have fallen after the bond’s initial issuance, this bond now trades at a premium . 
We’ll assume that the bond is not callable  for the first 3 years  and becomes callable at modest 
premiums each year after that : 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
71 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
The YTC is far lower without  these penalty fees because we buy the bond at a premium to par 
value but earn back only the par value upon maturity  – and we receive many fewer interest 
payments than expected.  
With  the redemption premiums, however, the YTC is a bit higher than the YTM, which 
compensates us for taking the risk of buying a bond that the company might repay early.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
72 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Another useful metric is Yield to Worst (YTW) , which is the minimum between the bond’s Yield 
to Call (YTC) on each possible Call Date and its Yield to Maturity (YTM).  
This one helps investors evaluate the “worst -case scenario,” assuming the bond has a fixed 
coupon rate and the Discount Rate does not change.  
The real worst -case scenario is that the company defaults and never repays the bond.  
So, the YTW is more like “the worst -possible yield, assuming the company stays solvent and 
that it makes all required payments before  calling the bond or repaying it upon maturity. ” 
Bonds are often quoted  in terms of  both their YTM  and their  YTW.  Here are the numbers : 
 
If the Discount Rate is less than or equal to the bond’s coupon rate, the YTW is less than or 
equal to the YTM.  
Since the Discount Rate of 3.885% is less than the coupon rate of 4.875% here, the bond trades 
at a premium to par value . 
Therefore, a new investor would pay a premium  for the bond , and if they held it to maturity, 
they would earn the YTM on the bond.  
If the company called this bond early, the investor would earn more than  the YTM because of 
the relatively high call premiums.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
73 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Because of these call premiums, the YTW equals the YTM in this case: investors are worse off  if 
the company waits until maturity and does not call the bond early.  
With lower call premiums, however, the YTW would likely correspond to one of the YTCs in the 
earlier period shown here, and the YTW would be less than the YTM.  
If the Discount Rate exceeds the bond’s coupon rate, the YTW e quals the YTM.  
In this case, the bond trades at a discount  to par value, so the “gain” from buying the bond at 
this discount amortizes over a shorter period if the company repays it early.  
In this scenario, even if there were no penalty fees, the investor would be worst off  if the 
company held the bond and repaid  it upon maturity.  
 
The company has no incentive to call the bond early and refinance because it would not get a 
lower coupon rate . 
We can do  a similar  analysis for putable bonds as well, but there’s less to say because the 
redemption premium is alm ost always 100%, so there is no “penalty” or “reward” for this 
forced early repayment.  
The “reward” is that the company pays a lower coupon rate on the bond in exchange for  the 
added risk this put option creates.  
The concept of “Yield to Worst” is less applicable because  the investors choose whether or not 
to force an early redemption . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
74 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
They would usually do this only if prevailing yields on similar bonds have risen, and they could 
earn a higher yield by forcing an early repayment and re -investing the proceeds elsewhere.  
If prevailing yields have fallen , meaning the bond now trades at a premium, it would not make 
sense to force an early repayment because the Yield to Put ( YTP)  would be below the YTM:  
 
Make -Whole Provisions  
Another concept related to call options  and callable bonds is the Make -Whole Provision.  
A “Make -Whole Provision” lets a company call a bond early even if it is “non -callable” – IF the 
company compensates investors by paying them the Present Value of cash flow lost from this 
early redemption.  
Make -Whole Provisions provide an extreme disincentive  for companies to repay bonds early 
because they often produce 10-20% penalty fees . 
Also, these penalty fees are usually linked to a benchmark rate , such as the 10 -year U.S. 
Treasury Yield – so if interest rates fall, the penalty fee increases . 
Therefore, even if an early refinancing makes sense because of a dramatic decline in interest 
rates, the penalty fee will be so high that an early refinancing is rarely worthwhile.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
75 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The redemption premiums  in the previous section were examples of “fixed” Ma ke-Whole 
Provisions: the company has to pay a fixed percentage of the bond’s par value if it chooses to 
repay the bond early , depending on the date.  
But Make -Whole Provisions during a bond’s lockout period are variable  because they’re based 
on the Present Value of future interest and principal payments, discounted at a spread to the 
yields of government bonds , such as 5 -year or 10 -year U.S. Treasuries.  
Returning to the Netflix example, let’s assume that the bond has a Make -Whole Provision  that 
allows for early repayment any time before maturity, with a Make -Whole Spread of T + 50 bps.  
“T + 50 bps” means “Take the yield on the U.S. Treasury wi th the closest maturity – the 7-year 
or 10 -year here – and add 0.50%.”  
So, if the company wants to repay this bond early, it will have to pay the Present Value of the 
Future Interest Payments and the Principal Repayment discounted at the 10-Year U.S. Treasury 
Yield + 0.50% . 
Here’s the analysis in Excel : 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
76 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Yes, the numbers are correct : if a Make -Whole Provision specifies “T + 50 bps” for the Make -
Whole Spread , the company has to repay 110% of the bond’s par value if it calls the bond 
early and the current 10 -year UST yield is 3.0%.  
Depending on the treatment of Accrued Interest, this number could be even higher:  
 
An effective penalty fee of 10 -12% is far higher than the typical Redemption Premiums on 
callable bonds, which explains why companies rarely want to pay it.  
We can use this analysis in real life to determine whether or not a very early redemption during 
the “lockout period” makes financial sense.  
For it to make sense, the PV of savings from the reduced interest expense would have to 
exceed the penalty fee.  
And if the company cannot even refinance at a lower coupon rate, it’s almost impossible to 
make the numbers work.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
77 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A company might pay the Make -Whole Price to refinance early if: 
1) Intere st rates have fallen dramatically , and the company can save so much money by 
refinancing that it’s worth paying a high premium.  
 
2) The company was distressed or wasn’t performing well, so it had to borrow at an 
extremely high rate. But its financial performa nce and credit rating have improved, so  
the company can pay significantly lower coupon rates on its bonds.  
The second scenario here is more plausible because the Make -Whole Price is always linked to 
the benchmark rate , which tends to follow the Discount Rate:  
 
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 9: Debt Comps and Refinancing Recommendation s 
We’ll conclude these key rules for bond analysis with two examples of how to put together the 
concepts and make refinancing recommendations  for companies in real life.  
The first example will continue the Netflix analysis above, and the second will focus on a 
distressed company currently trying to turn around its business.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
78 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For Netflix, the question is quite simple: if the company can repay its 4.875% bond now and 
get a lower coupon rate on a new issuance, s hould it do that?  
In other words, does the PV of savings from the reduced interest expense exceed the penalty 
fee (the Make -Whole Price) the company has to pay?  
To answer this question, we start by calculating the Make -Whole Price over a reasonable range 
of Discount Rates, as in the previous Key Rule . 
The short answer from that analysis is that the Make -Whole Price will likely be between 108 
and 112; we can assume 110, meaning Netflix will pay a 10% penalty for early repayment.  
To calculate the PV of the savings fro m the 
reduced interest expense, we can make 
assumptions for the new bond that will replace 
the existing one  (shown on the right).  
We can then calculate the reduced interest 
expense from this 2% lower coupon rate over 
the bond’s tenor and discount it at the  Make -
Whole Discount Rate:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
79 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But there are a few problems with this initial analysis:  
1. The YTM on the current bond is 3.9%  vs. a coupon rate of 4.9 %. So, could Netflix 
refinance and get a coupon rate that’s 2% lower ? If the new coupon rate is only 1% 
lower , the Make -Whole Premium exceeds the PV of the interest savings.  
 
2. We’re assuming a baseline Discount Rate of 3.5%, matching the midpoint of the range 
used in the Make -Whole Price calculations – which, again, implies that the coupon rate 
on this new issuance will not be 2% lower.  
This sensitivity table illustrates the problems with refinancing:  
 
There are other issues as well: for example, the Duration and Convexity are both higher due to 
this lower coupon rate, so the investors assume more interest -rate risk.  
If the company wants to refinance and offer the bond investors an issuance that would result in 
a similar YTM, Duration, and Convexity, terms like the following might work:  
• Coupon Rate:  2.875% (2% lower than current)  
• Original Issue Discount (OID):  7% (Issue Price of $930 million vs. Par Value of $1 billion)  
• Maturity:  2029 -12-15 (6 mon ths earlier)  
With these terms, the PV of the interest savings exceeds the Make -Whole Premium – but the 
company still loses money because of the $70 million in OID!  This example illustrates why the 
Make -Whole Provision almost always produce s a “lose -lose” on an early refinancing.  
This second example is slightly more interesting because it’s for a distressed company : 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
80 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Company:  Sandpiper Crossing, whose LTM EBITDA has fallen from $70 million to $25 
million . Its Debt / EBITDA is now over 6x, its EBITDA / Interest is at 1.4x , and its 
Minimum Cash is $20 million.  
 
• Outstanding Debt:  It has a $150 million 12% coupon bond due in about 2 years (2024 -
09-15), and a hedge fund just bought it in the secondary market at  70% of par value.  
 
• Request:  The company wants a 3-year extension  and a lower coupon rate  so it can get 
more time to restructure its business and execute  a turnaround.  
 
• Proposed New Issuance:  An 8% bond with a maturity date of 2027 -09-15, no 
redemptions before 2025, and redemption prices of 120 in 2025, 115 in 2026, and 110 
in 2027. There will also be equity grants of 10% in 2025, 25% in 2026, and 35% in 2027.  
The company has given us its business plan, including projections for its EBITDA, potential 
EBITDA multiples, and Cash and Debt balances (so we can calculate Enterprise Value, Equity 
Value, and related metrics in future years).  
Sandpiper argues that although the Yield to Maturity (YTM) is lower due to the reduced coupon 
rate, the Yield to Exit (YTE) is the same or higher than the YTE on the existing bond, so these 
terms should satisfy the hedge fund investors . 
At first glance, the company’s claim appears to be true:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
81 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But the hedge fund investors would assume significantly more operational and interest -rate 
risk in this scenario – so the yield on the new issuance must be HIGHER:  
 
We need to find a solution that satisfie s the following conditions:  
• A higher Yield to Exit  – perhaps in the 35 -40% range.  
• A coupon rate  lower than 12%  – but it doesn’t necessarily have to be as low as 8%.  
• The same 3-year extended maturity  – because the company needs the extra time.  
The main options for achieving these goals are:  
• Original Issue Discount (OID)  – Let investors buy the new bond at a substantial 
discount, such as 10 -20% below par value . 
 
• Higher Call Redemptions  – Increase the penalty fees to the 20 -30% range so that the 
hedge fund investors earn more when the company repays the bond.  
 
• Higher Equity Grants  – The hedge fund investors would earn more when the bond is 
repaid , assuming the company’s turnaround goes as planned . 
But not all these  options are equally viable because the company has major Cash constraints . 
Here’s its current and projected capital structure:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
82 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
OID would allow the hedge fund investors to purchase the new issuance at a discount  but 
would reduce the company’s Cash balance because it would still have to repay the current 
issuance  at par value.  Given the Cash  balances shown above , OID is not the best option.  
The Cash balance is also important because it means  that even in the final few years, we cannot 
propose extremely high redemption prices.  
For example, prices of 140 or 150  (40% or 50% penalty fees ) do not work because they 
represent $60 – $75 million  in fees , and the company only has $50 – $60 million of Excess Cash 
in the last two years.  
It’s also worth noting the company’s EBITDA / Interest under its proposed  new issuance:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
83 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If we try different numbers, we see that a 10%  coupon rate produces an EBITDA / Interest of 
2.0x in the first half-year following settlement.  
However, it also reduces the company’s Cash balance by $2 – 3 million per year, so it could be 
lower by ~$15 million by the end.  
Factoring in this lower Cash balance, the redemption prices can be slightly  higher, but not muc h 
higher . 
For example, a 20% penalty fee is 20% * $150 million = $30 million, and the company’s Excess 
Cash in Year 3 is between $30 and $40 million.  
Therefore, we might propose a structure such as the following:  
• 2025:  125.0 redemption price  
• 2026:  122.5 redemption price  
• 2027:  120.0 redemption price  
Even with these tweaks, though, the Yield to Exit is still too low:  
 
To boost the Yield to Exit, we need to grant  more equity . We can try 40% and 55% in the last 2 
years, up from the 25% and 35% the company initially proposed, which produces these results:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
84 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Our final refinancing recommendation for this distressed company is:  
• Coupon Rate:  10% (2% higher than the company’s proposal) . 
• Maturity:  2027 -09-15 (the same) . 
• Redemption Prices:  Not callable in the first three years; 125 in 2025, 122.5 in 2026, and 
120 in 2027.  
• Equity Grant s: 10% in 2025, 40% in 2026, and 55% in 2027.  
These terms offer the hedge fund investors a higher yield in exchange for the higher risk they 
assume, all while allowing the company to comply with its targeted EBITDA / Interest and 
maintain its $20 million Minimum Cash.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 10: Convertible Bond Accounting, Valuation, and Analysis  
We have referenced Convertible Bonds throughout the previous key rules, so you should 
already know  the basics.  
As a quick refresher, the main features of Convertible Bonds include:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
85 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Coupon Rate : The same as it is for normal bonds, but it’s much lower here because the 
conversion option  adds significant value . If a company has to offer a 5% coupon rate on 
a traditional bond, it might be able to offer 1% or 0% on a Convertible  Bond.  
 
• Maturity : The same as it is for normal bonds, but the maturity is often shorter (e.g., 3 -5 
years rather than 10 years).  
 
• Conversion Price : If the company’s stock price reaches this level, the Convertible 
Bondholders have the right, but not the obligation, to convert their bonds into common 
shares.  
 
• Conversion Premium : How much higher is the Conversion Price than the company’s 
stock price at issuance?  
 
• Par Value:  What is each  individual bond  in the issuance  worth ? The standard 
assumption is a Par Value of $1,000 unless otherwise specified.  
 
• Conversion Ratio:  How many common shares does each bond convert into? The 
Conversion Ratio equals  the Par Value divided by the Conversion Price.  
 
• # of Convertible Bonds:  How many individual bonds are in the issuance? This equals the 
face value or principal of the Convertible Bond s divided by the ir Par Value.  
 
• Diluted Shares from Convertible Bonds:  This equal s the # of Convertible Bonds times 
the Conversion Ratio.  
Let’s say that a company’s current stock price is $100.00.  
It issues a $500 million Convertible Bond with a 30% Conversion Premium, a 1% Coupon Rate, a 
5-year Maturity, and a Par Value of $1,000.  
A 30% Conversion Premium means the Conversion Price is $130.00, or $100.00 * (1 + 30%). So, 
the bond investors can convert their bonds into common shares if the company’s share price 
reaches $130.00.  
The Conversion Ratio equal s Par Value / Conversion Price, so it is $1,000 / $130.00 = 7.7.  
Therefore, each bond converts into 7.7 common shares . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
86 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
There are 500,000 individual bonds because it’s a $500 million issuance  and the Par Value is 
$1,000; $500 million / $1,000 = 500,000.  
Initially, the bond investors cannot convert the bonds into shares because the company’s stock 
price is still $100.00  at issuance.  
But if the stock price reaches $130.00, they can convert.  If this happens, and the bondholders 
choose to convert their bonds, they receive shares in the company, and their bonds are retired.  
The Conversion Ratio is 7.7 , and there are 500,000 individual bon ds, so the bondholders receive 
7.7 * 500,000 = ~3.9 million shares if they convert.  
Convertible Bond Accounting for Issuances, Conversions, and Maturities  
There are two main options when accounting for Convertible Bonds on a company’s financial 
statements:  
1) Split the Bond Into Liability and Equity Components  – This is the most common 
treatment under IFRS, but you’ll occasionally see it under U.S. GAAP, depending on the 
terms and classification of the bond.  
 
2) Record the Entire Bond as a Liability  – This treatment is the most common under U.S. 
GAAP, but it is possible under IFRS and other accounting systems as well (the rules are 
complicated and unimportant for financial modeling and valuation ; just follow what the 
company does in its filings ). 
Under  both methods , the initial amount recorded for Convertible Bonds on the Balance Sheet 
equals the face value or principal of the bonds minus the issuance fees.  
Let’s say that a company issues $100 million of 5-year 1% Convertible Bonds and pays a 2% 
issuance fee . 
If the company issued traditional bonds instead, the coupon rate would be 5%.  
The PRICE function in Excel tells us that the traditional bond component  of this Convertible 
Bond equals ~$82.5 million (based on a 5% Discount Rate).  
Here’s what happens initially on the Balance Sheet under both systems:  
1) IFRS (Split Components)  – The company records $100 .0 – $82.5 = $17.5 for the Equity 
Component, which represents the call option s on the bond. For the Liability Component, 
it records $82.5 – $2.0 in issuance fees = $80.5 million. The total amount on the Balance 
Sheet (i.e., the book value) is $98.0 million.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
87 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
2) U.S. GA AP (Single Liability Component)  – The company records $100.0 – $2.0 in 
issuance fees = $98.0 million  in a single “Convertible Bond” Liability.  
For more on the “Split Liability and Equity” treatment, please see the “More Advanced 
Accounting Guide” in this course . In this section, we will assume the U.S. GAAP treatment . 
After the initial issuance, under U.S. GAAP , the Convertible Bond Liability keeps increasing each 
year based on the amortization of the issuance fees.  
If there are no conversions, and the company simply holds the bond and repays it  at maturity , 
the Convert ible Bond Liability will equal its initial Face Value  at maturity , and the Liability will go 
to $0 to reflect the repayment (Cash on the Assets side decreases to balance this change , or 
another Debt or Equity line item on the L&E side increases if the company refinances ). 
If there is a conversion before maturity , the entire Liability component is removed and “re-
classified” into Equity instead:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
88 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Convertible Bond Valuation  
Regardless of the accounting system, 
we always value  a Convertible Bond 
by splitting it into Liability and Equity 
components.  
Valuing the Liability component, i.e., 
determining what the Convertible 
Bond would be worth as a traditional 
bond , is simple: use the PRICE 
function in Excel, the Convertible 
Bond’s coupon rate, and the 
equivalent rate on a traditional bond 
for the Discount Rate.  
It’s more difficult to value the Equity component because it consists of call option s on the 
company’s shares.  
There are many ways to value stock option s, but the Black -Scholes formula  is one of the most 
common methods . 
The formula’s derivation is beyond the scope of this guide, but the basic idea is that we need to 
estimate the probability  that the company’s stock price will exceed the bond’s Conversio n Price 
before the bond matures.  
Here’s an example based on a Convertible Bond for Netflix with a Conversion Price of $ 247.73 : 
 
The call option s embedded in the Convertible Bond are worth $0 if the company’s s tock price 
stays below $ 247.73 . 
But they’re worth different  amount s at each price above $ 247.73 , and the probability  of 
reaching each stock price above that level is different.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
89 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
So, we need to sum up all the expected values, starting like this:  
• Expected Value @ $ 247.73  = $247.73 * Probability of Reaching This Price  
• Expected Value @ $ 247.74  = $247.74  * Probability of Reaching This Price  
• Expected Value @ $ 247.75  = $247.75  * Probability of Reaching This Price  
• [Continue this series through infinity]  
The Black -Scholes formula estimate s the value of a single call option like this:  
Call Option Value  = S * N(d 1) – X * e-rT * N(d 2) 
The first part of the equation , S * N(d 1), represents “what we get” by exercising the call option, 
and the second part , X * e-rT * N(d 2), represents “what we pay” to do so.  
S is the company’s current stock price, which was $ 190.56  in this example.  
N(d 1) is a “probability factor” that represents a cumulative normal distribution around that 
stock price.  
X is the exercise price of the call option, which equal s the Conversion Price  of $247.73 here.  
The e-rT term discounts the exercise price back to its Present Value continuously ; r represents 
the Risk -Free Rate, and T is the number of years until expiration.  
N(d 2) is another “probability factor” that represents the risk -adjusted probability that t he 
option will be exercised . 
It’s influenced by N(d 1) because the exercise probability increases as the company’s stock price 
increases.  
The entire  first term of this equation – S * N(d 1) – is the Present Value of the stock if and only if  
the option ends up being in -the-money.  
The second term – X * e-rT * N(d 2) – is the Present Value of the exercise price  payment if and 
only if  the option ends up being in -the-money.  
The f ormulas for N(d1) and N(d2) are affected by the current stock price , the exercise price , the 
volatility  of the company’s stock  price , the risk-free rate , the time to expiration , and the 
company’s dividend yield  (if applicable).  
If the exercise price and stock price are closer, there’s a higher probability  that the option 
holders will be able to exercise their options ( and that  the bondholders will be able to convert 
their bonds).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
90 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the risk -free rate or volatility is higher, there’s also a higher probability  of the option 
becoming exercisable.  
Volatility  makes a huge impact because it flattens the normal distribution . 
Imagine the same stock, but with very different volatilities:  
 
The concepts are simple, but the calculations get complicated because people disagree about 
measuring and predicting volatility . 
The overall valuation process might look like this:  
1) Value each call option  using the methods above ( i.e., the Black -Scholes  formula ). 
 
2) Multiply each call option’s value by the Conversion Ratio  to determine how much the 
call options attached to each bond  are worth ; you might also adjust for the dilution 
created by the conversion of the bond into common shares.  
 
3) Multiply the value in #2 by the total # of individual bonds  in the Convertible Bond 
issuance to determine the value of all the call options . 
The valuation output might look like this in Excel, assuming a $4 billion issuance:  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
91 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Convertible Bond’s implied value is ~$4.6 billion vs. a face value of $4.0 billion, so it should 
be relatively appealing to investors.  
To sensitize this valuation, we could examine the stock -price volatility, the current share price, 
and the Conversion Price:  
 
The conclusion is that we could increase the Conversion Price by a fair amount, and the 
Convertible Bond would still appeal to investors because it would still be worth more than the 
$4 billion face value even at Conversion Prices close to $300.00.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
92 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
So, if the company is concerned about potential dilution from its high stock -price volatility, 
increasing the Conversion Price might be one option to reduce the dilution.  
Another conclusion is that the market is currently quite bearish  about the company’s prospects 
because a 30% Conversion Premium makes the Convertible Bond look undervalued.  
Payoff Diagrams, Payback Periods, Hedges , and the Blended Cost of Convertible Bonds  
There are many other analyses we could complete for Convertible Bonds . 
One common analysis is a Payoff Diagram  that shows the Convertible Bond’s implied value and 
“payoff value” as the company’s stock price changes.  
The implied value is based on the method s above: use PRICE to value the Liability component, 
use Black -Scholes to value the Equity component, and add them up.  
The “payoff value” equals the bond’s face value ($4 billion) if the company’s share price is 
below the Conversion Price and the company’s  share price * # of dilutive shares in issuance if 
the share price exceeds the Conversion Price.  
Here’s an example of such a diagram for Netflix:  
 
Notice how the bond’s price starts to exceed the payoff value well below the Conversion 
Price  – and even above  the Conversion Price, it remains well above the payoff value.  
That’s because , unlike normal equity, the Convertible Bond offers downside protection  to the 
investors.  

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
93 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Even if Netflix’s share price remains stagnant or crashes, the company will almost certainly 
repay or refinance the $4 billion bond when it matures.  
Therefore, the Convertible Bond acts as “hedged equity” for investors: if the company does 
well, they captu re the equity upside, and if it performs poorly, they get their principal back 
upon maturity in 5 years.  
In line with this idea, we can also estimate the potential downside  of a Convertible Bond , also 
known as the “Premium Over Straight Value,” or Market Price / Value as a Traditional Bond – 1. 
In the Netflix example above, this equals $4.6 billion / $3.3 billion – 1 = ~38%.  
This means that investors would pay a ~38% premium to the bond’s “floor value” if, as 
predicted above, its market price reaches $4.6 billion in the secondary markets.  
Therefore, investors could be down $3.3 billion / $4.6 billion – 1 = ~27% if they buy the bond at 
this market price, and then the company’s stock price drops precipitously  – so much that the 
call options become nearly worthless.  
If they simply held the bond to maturity, they would lose only $4.0 billion / $4.6 billion = ~12% 
if the company repaid the bond fully  upon maturity.  
We can also calculate the Payback Period  for a Convertible, which indicates how long it takes 
for the Convertible P remium to pay for itself.  
The “ Convertible P remium” means: “The Conversion Price at the Market Price of the 
Convertible Bond minus the Current Share Price.”  
In other words, how much extra  do we pay to buy a single share of the company’s stock via 
Convertible Bonds rather than with normal common shares?  
Let’s continue with the Netflix exa mple to illustrate:  
• Conversion Price at the Market Price of the Convertible Bond  = ($4.6 billion / $4.0 
billion) * Par Value of $1,000 / Conversion Ratio of 4.037 = $282.42  
 
• Convertible Premium  = $282.42 – Current Share Price of $190.56 = $91.86  
So, we pay almost $92 extra per share for the downside protection the Convertible Bonds offer . 
We also earn income  from the 1% coupon rate on this Convertible Bond, and we give up  the 
income from the Dividends  if we had owned the shares directly.  
We can estimate this “Extra Income per Share” with:  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
94 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Coupon Rate * Par Value / Conversion Ratio – Dividend Yield * Share Price = 1.0% * 
$1,000 / 4.037 – 0% * $190.56 = $2.48  
Since Netflix pays no Dividends, we earn $2.48 per share from the 1% coupon rate and give up 
no income in the process.  
The Payback Period  equals the Convertible Premium / Extra Income per Share, so it’s $91.87 / 
$2.48 = ~37 years here.  
The meaning  of this number depends on the maturity  of the Convertible Bond.  
If it greatly exceeds the maturity, as it does here, the Convertible Bond acts more like “hedged 
equity,” and we must be confident of an eventual conversion – or we’ve paid the premium for 
nothing.  
But if the Payback Period is closer to the bond’s maturity , such as 10 years vs. a 5 -year maturity, 
it’s closer to a traditional bond, and the premium paid matters less.  
Call Spreads and Convertible Note Hedges  
While Convertible Bonds offer benefits to 
both companies and investors, they also 
have a big downside: if the bonds ever 
convert, the company experiences dilution,  
just as it does with a normal E quity issuance.  
To reduce this dilution , a company can use a 
“call spread ,” also known as a “capped call” 
or “note hedg e,” where it buys call options  
on its stock to cancel out the dilution and, at 
the same time, sells warrants  on its stock to offset the cost of the call options.  
You might wonder why  a company would sell warrants on its own stock . 
If the goal is to reduce dilution, why wouldn’t it just buy call options  so it could repurchase 
some of the new shares that the Convertible Bond creates ? 
The answer is that very few counter -parties will write and sell call options  to a company 
without doing something to reduce the ir own  risk.  
If the counter -party sells call options without owning the underlying stock, it will be left with a 
short position . 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
95 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the stock’s price rises  above the exercise price , that means unlimited po tential losses  for the 
counter -party  because it has to sell shares at the exercise price  and buy them  above the exercise 
price . 
But if the counter -party also purchases warrants from the company simultaneously , that 
reduces its risk: if the company’s stock price keeps rising, the counter -party can exercise its 
warrants to accumulate shares at a fixed price . 
Effectively, these warrants limit the potential losses  for the counter -party , which is required for 
the counter -party to feel comfortable writing and selling call options to the company.  
In Excel, the strategy might look like this:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
96 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Convertible Bond still creates additional shares, but there are fewer shares , and they are 
created only at  higher stock price s (i.e., some level above  the Conversion Price).  
One final topic is the Blended Cost of Convertible Bonds.  
In other words, rather than treating a Convertible Bond as either  Debt or Equity in the WACC 
calculation, we can split it into components, assign a cost to each one, and sum them up.  
The Cost of Deb t for the Liability Component is simple: take the coupon rate on equivalent, 
traditional Debt and multiply it by (1 – Tax Rate).  
For the other component, we can use this formula:  
• Cost of Conversion Option  = Risk-Free Rate + Equity Risk Premium * Option Beta  
This Option Beta  is almost always higher  than the normal Levered or Re -Levered Beta because 
the option ’s price  is more sensitive to changes in the stock price  than the stock itself.  
• Option Beta  = Option Elasticity * Levered Beta  
 
• Option Elasticity  = Option Delta * Convertible Value If Converted  / Market Price of 
Conversion Option  
The “Option Delta” is the N(d1) term from the Black -Scholes formula, so we can re-use it here; 
it represents the chan ge in the option’s price for each $1.00 change in the stock price.  
“Option Elasticity” is the percentage change  in the option’s price for each 1.0% change  in the 
stock price – and we’re applying it to the entire Convertible Bond here.  
Here’s the calculation for Netflix:  
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
97 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If we plot these Costs as the company’s stock price changes , we get the following results:  
 
As the stock price increases, the Blended Cost of the Convertible Bond moves closer and closer 
to the Cost of Equity but never quite reaches it (i.e., it’s asymptotic).  
This result confirms the nature of Convertible Bonds: they’re more like Equity at high stock 
price s (well above the Conversion Price ) and more like Debt at much lower stock prices  (well 
below the Conversion Price ). 
Return to Top . 
 
 
 
 
 

 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
98 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
These questions are primarily for investment banking interviews  with groups such as Equity 
Capital Markets (ECM), Debt Capital Markets (DCM), and Leveraged Finance (LevFin).  
We covered many debt-related questions in the technical guide to Leveraged Buyouts and LBO 
Models , so we will not repeat those questions here.  
You are unlikely to receive these questions in private equity interviews, but they could come up 
if you interview at a credit fund , a direct  lender, a mezzanine  firm, or another credit -focused 
firm.  
You could also get questions about these topics if you interview at a hedge fund that uses 
strategies such as convertible bond arbitrage or long/short credit.  
You are unlikely  to receive these questions in interviews for corporate finance, corporate 
development, or equity research roles.  
 
Debt vs. Equity  
Questions about Debt vs. Equity span a wide range, from the ir advantages and disadvantages to 
exceptions , special cases , and the decision -making process.  
 
1. Why might  a company issue Debt rather than E quity ? 
A company might do this if Debt is cheaper than Equity, it fits the typical profile of a Debt issuer 
(a mature/value -oriented company ), and it’s capable  of issuing additional Debt because its  
credit stats and ratios are in acceptable ranges.  
Most companies have targeted Debt / EBITDA and EBITDA / Interest levels , and lenders might 
require them to stay above or below certain levels if they issue additional Debt.  
If the company cannot comply with these ratios , if Equity is cheaper  than Debt (this sometimes 
happens with high -growth companies  trading at high multiples ), or it doesn’t fit the profile of a 
typical borrower, it might issue Equity for some or all of the issuance instead.  
 
2. Why might a company issue  a Convertible Bond rather than traditional Debt or Equity?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
99 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A Convertible Bond is appropriate if the company is more of a “growth” or speculative firm, it 
wants to raise capital with a low or zero cash cost, and it does not want immediate share 
dilution.  These reasons explain  why many high -growth, unprofitable tech  and biotech 
companies issue Convertible Bonds.  
Convertible Bonds might also be appropriate if the company fits the typical profile of a 
borrower but might have trouble paying for cash interest on traditional Debt or complying with 
its targeted or required  credit stats and ratios.  
Convertible Bonds are not “cheaper” than traditional Debt; it’s just that their cash cost  is lower 
because of the lower coupon rates. In reality, the Cost of Convertible Bonds is typically between 
the Cost of Debt and the Cost of Equity.  
 
3. Why might a company issue Equity even when Debt is cheaper  for the company ? 
Not all companies can issue additional Debt because of restrictions on ratios such as Debt / 
EBITDA and EBITDA / Interest.  
For example, if a company already has 5x Debt / EBITDA and lenders  have said they’re unwilling 
to lend anything above that level , the company must issue Equity.  
Also, not all companies fit the profile that lenders typically seek; for example, they’re  
comfortable lending to mature, profitable companies with recurring revenue  but less 
comfortable lending to riskier, higher -growth companies.  
 
4. How can you determine whether Equity or Debt is cheaper?  
You use the same approach as in a WACC analysis: calculate the Cost of Equity with Risk -Free 
Rate + Levered Beta * Equity Risk Premium, and calculate the Cost of Debt with Yield to 
Maturity on Debt * (1 – Tax Rate).  
For the Cost of Debt, you could skip the YTM calculation to save time and use the company’ s 
weighted -average interest rate, coupon rate, or Current Yield.  
Another option is to take the weighted average YTM  from comparable companies  (but this 
would require significantly more time to calculate).  
For the Cost of Equity, an alternate calculation method is to take the reciprocal of the 
company’s P / E multiple ( e.g., 10x P / E means a 10% Cost of Equity since 1 / 10 = 10%).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
100 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But this method will often produce nonsensical results for high -growth/speculative companies,  
so it’s more of a supplemental calculation.  
 
5. Explain intuitively why the Cost of Convertible Bonds tends to be between the Cost of Debt 
and the Cost of Equity . 
A Convertible Bond has two components: the “Traditional De bt” component and the “Call 
Option” component.  
The Traditional Debt component usually represents most  of the Convertible Bond’s market 
value, and its cost equals the Cost of Debt  of a traditional bond.  
The Cost of the Call Option tends to be higher  than the company’s traditional Cost of Equity 
because a call option’s price is more sensitive  to changes in the underlying stock price.  
The Blended Cost of the Convertible Bond is based on a weighted average o f these costs, which 
usually ends up between the Cost of Debt and the Cost of Equity.  
Another explanation is that at higher stock prices – above the Conversion Price – the 
Convertible Bond behaves more like Equity, but at lower stock prices, it  acts more like Debt. So, 
on average, its Cost should be in between these.  
 
6. How might you decide whether a company should raise capital via Equity, Term Loans, or 
Subordinated Notes?  
You should start with the cheapest form of financing , which means Term Loans in this case. You 
would create different operational scenarios for the company , project its cash flow s, and 
evaluate how well it can comply with the maintenance covenants and other restrictions on the 
Term Loans, particularly in the Downside cases.  
If it comp lies with these restrictions , recommend the Term Loans. If not, consider the 
Subordinated Notes next since they lack the same restrictions as the Term Loans, and they’re 
still cheaper than Equity.  
If the company’s credit stats and ratios decline too much i n the Downside cases (e.g., its EBITDA 
/ Interest falls to 1.5x when the company doesn’t want to go below 2 .0x), or the company has 
trouble paying for the cash interest on these Subordinated Notes, then you have to consider 
Equity, the most expensive funding source.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
101 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You might also try combinations of Debt and Equity to get the cheapest financing that also lets 
the c ompany meet its targeted credit stats and ratios.  
Finally, you should also consider the company’s qualitative profile : a biotech startup probably 
can’t issue Term Loans or Subordinated Notes, but a mature industrial company could.  
 
7. What does it mean if a company can't comply with the maintenance covenants on Term 
Loans in the Downside or Extreme Downside cases?  
It means that the lenders won’t fund the Term Loans, so you have to consider different loans 
with less-restrictive covenants  or Equity financing (in whole or in part).  
Lenders focus on the Downside cases  because they have limited upside but huge potential 
downside . They always want to evaluate th e worst -case scenario  since they could potentially 
lose everything, but their upside is limited to the interest rate (plus/minus a bit for special 
terms like penalty fees, issuance discounts, etc.).  
 
8. If a company can't comply with a Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) ratio  covenant  on a 
potential issuance of Term Loans, should it consider junior Debt  instead ? 
Not necessarily. The Debt Service Coverage Ratio measures the cash flow available vs. the cash 
flow required for Debt principal repayments + interest payments on Debt  + other fixed charges 
such as lease payments.  
“Junior Debt” such as Unsecured Senior Notes and Subordinated Notes has higher coupon rates 
but no principal repayment s, so the company may be able to service that Debt more easily.  
However, there is another o ption: use Term Loans that lack significant principal repayment s, 
such as a Term Loan B rather than Term Loan A.  
 
9. Why might a company consider Mezzanine or Preferred Stock rather than Subordinated 
Notes?  
These forms of Debt all lack maintenance covenants, and the coupon rates on Mezzanine and 
Preferred Stock are higher than th ose on Subordinated Notes, so it can’t be issues of cost or 
financial restrictions.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
102 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The most likely reason is that the company already has too much Debt, so the Subordinated 
Note investors won’t invest, and the company must  consider higher -cost financing.  
Another reason might be that the company cannot afford the cash interest on the Subordinated 
Notes, but the Mezzan ine and Preferred Stock provide a “Payment -in-Kind” (PIK) option in 
which the interest accrues to the loan principal, reducing the company’s cash costs . 
 
10. A mature manufacturing company is already levered  at 5x Debt / EBITDA, and lenders 
have been unwilling to fund additional Term Loans, Senior Notes, or Subordinated Notes 
because of concerns over the company’s leverage and credit rating.  
The company wants to issue Convertible Bonds to get around this prob lem. Why might this 
be an unrealistic strategy?  
The problem is that this is a mature company in an established industry, so there ’s little growth 
potential , and its share price is unlikely to increase by a huge percentage.  
Convertible Bond  investors usually favor companies with higher growth potential because most 
investors buy these bonds as a form of “hedged equity.”  
This company might be able to issue Convertible Bonds if it were in a high er-growth segmen t of 
the manufacturing industry  or if its stock price had significant upside  potential (e.g., the 
company was unfairly penalized for a recent earnings announcement , and it’s currently 
undervalued ). 
 
11. You’re considering 3 companies that want to raise capital: a utilit y company , a railroad 
company , and a branded pharmaceutical company . 
Which company is most appropriate for 100% Equity, which one is most appropriate  for 50% 
Debt / 50% Equity, and which one is most appropriate for 100% Debt?  
Think about the growth vs. value profile of each company and remember that, above all else, 
lenders want to avoid  losing money . 
The least risky company is the utilit y firm since consumers always need electricity , heating, and 
water , and many firms have local monopolies. Utilit y companies are also more predictable and 
offer less growth potential than the others  on this list . Therefore, this company is the best 
candidate for 100% Debt.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
103 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The railroad company is riskier than the utilit y company but less risky than the branded 
pharmaceutical company because it’s su bject to market forces, and its freight pricing and 
volume can shift dramatically based on the economy.  
However, it’s still relatively  predictable because you can estimate business declines based on 
past economic cycles, and it has significant collateral in the form of its factories and physical 
railroad assets. So, the railroad company is the best candidate for 50% Debt / 50% Equity.  
The branded pharmaceutical company is incredibly risky because its products are protected  by 
patents, which expire over time, and it constantly needs to acquire or invent new drugs to 
replace older ones th at have l ost patent protection.  
On the other hand, there’s also a huge potential upside if the company discovers a drug that 
cures cancer. So, this company is the best candidate for 100% Equity.  
 
12. In a credit model, how should the Downside cases differ from the Base and Upside cases?  
Revenue growth , operating  margins , and cash flow should all be lower in the Downside cases ; 
how  you get there depends on the company and industry.  
For example, the Downside case might mean “ lower unit sales  but similar per -unit profit ” in 
some industries, while in others, it might mean “similar CapEx spending but lower return s on 
that spending , resulting in lower growth and margins. ” 
You normally look at data from past downturns and years of poor performance  from the 
company and its peer companies to decide on the specific numbers.  
Return to Top . 
 
IPOs , Follow -On Offerings , and SPACs  
You’re more likely to get questions about the process  for IPOs and FOs than the analysis, but 
we’ve covered the process in the qualitative guides and various articles on M&I.  
These questions cover the technical analysis , including traditional Initial Public Offerings, 
Follow -On Offerings, and Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) -facilitated IPOs.  
 
1. How do you value a company in an IPO?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
104 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The same way you value a c ompany in any other context : with comparable public companies, 
precedent transactions, and a DCF analysis.  
The difference  is that you focus on the forward multiples of the Public Comps  because 
investor s pay the most attention to them when a company goes public. A company’s pricing in 
an IPO is based on these metrics as we ll. 
So, if the median 1 -year forward TEV / EBITDA multiple for peer companies is 15x, you might 
suggest a range of 1 -year forward TEV / EBITDA multiples around 15x for your company.  
 
2. Walk me th rough an IPO model for a private company that wants to go public.  
You start by assuming a range of forward  multiples that the company will trade at once it is 
public and then apply these to your company’s projected financial metrics.  
For example, maybe you assume a range of 12x – 16x for the forward EBITDA multip les, with 
14x as the midpoint.  
You then multiply by the company’s projected EBITDA to determine its Post -Money Enterprise 
Value at Trading . 
Then, you back into its Post -Money Equity Value at Trading by adding Cash (including the Net 
IPO Proceeds from the offering) and subtracting Debt . 
Next, you assume the company offers a Pricing Discount  to the IPO investors to compensate 
them for the risk t hey’re taking; this discount might be in the 10 -20% range.  
You reduce the Post -Money Equity Value by this Pricing Discount and base the Offering Price 
per Share on (Post -Money Equity Value at Pricing – IPO Offering Size) / Diluted Shares Before  
Offering.  
Then, you calculate the Primary Shares Issued based on the Post -Money Equity Value at Pricing 
/ Offering Price – Diluted Shares Before  Offering.  
For example, a Post-Money Equity Value of $ 2 billion / $50.00 Offering Price = 40 million shares, 
so if the com pany currently has 30 million shares, it must issue 10 million new shares . 
You can determine the Secondary Shares and Overallotment Shares based on separate 
assumptions for those  (if applicable).  
Finally, you calculate the % of the company sold in the IPO and its valuation multiples at pricing 
and trading , reflecting the Net IPO Proceeds in its Equity Value and Enterprise Value . 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
105 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
3. What are the advantages and disadvantages of driving an IPO model off valuation 
multiples and the offering size vs. the offering price and the number of shares issued ? 
A model driven by valuation multiples – the description in the previous question  – is closer to 
reality because companies price their offerings and trade based on the multiples of comparable 
public companies . 
However, such a model  is also harder to explain to clients because you have to “back into” 
many of the figures . 
You could also drive the model based on the offering price per share and the number of shares 
issued . This approach is easier to explain to clients because the deal size changes at different 
offering prices, but the percentage of the company sold remains constant . 
But this approach is not linked to peer companies’ valuation multiples, and the capital raised 
changes  based on the offering price, which doesn’t necessarily reflect reality ( as companies 
usually target a specific amount of capital  to raise in IPOs ). 
 
4. Why do companies offer pricing discounts in IPOs?  
Even if a company  believes its shares are worth $100.00, it usually lets new investors in an IPO 
purchase them at a discount of 10-20% (a 15% discount would mean $85.00 here) because the 
investors assume significant risk by purchasing the shares before  the company trades publicly.  
Anything could happen between pricing and the first full day of trading , and it’s not unusual to 
see huge spik es or drops in the company’s share price  on the first day . 
 
5. How does a company decide on the amount of capital to raise in an IPO?  
If the company is going public for a specific reason , such as making an acquisition, buying a 
factory, expanding into a new market, or repaying Debt, it will aim to raise the capital required 
for that purpose.  
But if the company is going public mostly to provide existing investors with liquidity, it often 
raises capital such that a specific percentage of the company is sold in the offering.  
For example, many later -stage startups aim to sell ~10% of the company in the offering; more 
mature companies migh t sell higher percentages, such as 20 -30%.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
106 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The company wants to offer enough new shares to make investors commit to the company, but 
not so many that it gives up significant control.  
 
6. What's the significance of Primary vs. Secondary Shares in an IPO or FO?  
“Primary Shares” are new ones  issued by the company in an equity offering.  Investors pay the 
company cash to buy these shares.  
They dilute the company’s existing investors by reducing their ownership stake s, but they also 
produce cash that the company can use for different purposes.  
“Secondary Shares” are existing shares sold to new investors  in the offering. They do not dilute 
existing investors, but the company also receives no cash from them.  
The percentages of Primary and Secondary Shares should  be with in reasonable ranges in an 
equity offering , so the market perceives it positively . For example, if an IPO consists of 90% 
Secondary Shares, new investors will rightfully wonder why many existing investors want to sell 
their shares immediately  rather than holding them for the long term.  
 
7. What's t he impact of a “Greenshoe ” or Overallotment provision in an IPO or FO, and when 
might a bank and company offer it?  
A “Greenshoe” lets a company sell more share s than originally planned in an equity offering. A 
company might use it if there’s higher -than -expected demand for its shares  and it wants to 
raise additional capital to take advantage of this demand.  
For example, the company initially planned to offer 10 million shares at $10.00 each, but with a 
15% Greenshoe, it  can offer 11.5 million shares and raise $115 million instead of $100 million.  
In an IPO or FO, a Greenshoe increases the deal size and results in a higher percentage of the 
company being sold  to new investors.  
 
8. How does the Follow -On Offering process differ from the Initial Public Offering  process ? 
It’s m uch faster and easier to issue equity in a Follow -On Offering because the company is 
already public and doesn’t need to go through regulatory approvals again.  
Also, investors already know the company’s name and reputati on, so less marketing is required 
to sell the offering.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
107 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
As a result, banks earn lower percentage fees in FOs , but the fees in absolute dollar terms  may 
be higher because the offerings tend to be bigger.  
Since the company is already public, the main issue is how much of a discount  to offer  to the 
new investors.  
This discount is much lower than the one in an IPO (e.g., 3 -5% rather than 10 -20%) because the 
new investors assume less risk by buying shares of a company that’s already public.  
 
9. How do you set up a Follow -On Offering model differently from an IPO model?  
It’s similar to an IPO model driven by shares issued and offering prices, but the offering prices 
are based on discount s to the company’s current share price . 
You determine the shares issued based on the amount of capital the company wants to raise 
and the discount it is offering; a higher discount means more shares, and a lower discount 
means fewer shares.  
Then, you factor in the Overallotment (Greenshoe) and the Pri mary vs. Secondary S hare split 
and determine the Net Proceeds (Total Primary Shares Sold * Offering Price – Fees).  
You can also calculate the % of the company sold in the offering based on the Primary Shares 
Issued / Post -Offering Share Count ; the valuation multiples at pricing and trading ; and the Cost 
of Equity for this offering  based  on the normal Cost of Equity and the pricing discount.  
 
10. How does a bank add value for a client in an IPO or Follow -On Offering ? 
The bank adds value for the client by guiding it through the e ntire process, recommending the 
terms in an offering (such as the appropriate pricing  discount), and selling the offering to the 
right investors.  
Investment bankers focus on getting the company’s “story” right, while the sales team uses its 
relationships with institutional investors to sell the offering.  
In ancient times, banks also assumed  risk in IPOs by buying the company’s shares before the 
company went public  and then re-selling them to new investors  (a “firm commitment”) , but 
this practice has become less common over time.  
 
11. How might you use Comparable Follow -On Issuances to analyze  a potential deal?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
108 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You’ll often look at a set of “Follow -On Comps” to get a sense of the appropriate offering size as 
a percentage of the company’s current Equity Value , the Primary vs. Secondary split, the typical 
Pricing Discount, and the stock -price performance of recent offerings.  
For example, if the median Follow -On Offering was 10% o f the company’s pre -deal Equity 
Value , Primary Shares were 85% of the total sold, and the median Pricing Discount was 5%, you 
might suggest these terms in your baseline model.  
You might use the post -offering stock -price performance  to advise the company on whether it’s 
a good time  to issue additional shares . 
 
12. Walk me through how a company might go public via a SPAC.  
In Step 1 of the SPAC process, a “Sponsor” ( a wealthy individual, celebrity, businessperson, 
financial firm, etc.) forms an empty holding company and takes it public, typically at a $10.00 
share price.  
Investors buy these shares and end up with ~80% of the SPAC, while the Sponsor gets a 
“Promote” that gives them 20% of the SPAC for very little capital . The Sponso r also pays for 
warrants at exercise prices modestly higher than $10.00 ; this cash payment covers the ~2.5% 
upfront underwriting fee.  
In Step 2, the Sponsor identifies a private target company that wants to go public and 
negotiates a n acquisition in which this target company becomes the majority owner  (i.e., a 
reverse merger).  
If the SPAC shareholders approve the deal, the SPAC issues so many shares that the target owns  
the vast majority (80 -90%+)  of the combined company . The Cash raised in the IPO goes on the 
combined company’s Balance Sheet, and other investors might also contribute capital in this 
step via a private investment in public equity  (PIPE).  
 
13. What are the trade -offs of a SPAC vs. an IPO for a company going public?  
The SPAC process is typically faster than a traditional IPO (months rather than one year+), the 
regulatory burden is much lower, and there’s no IPO Pricing Discount; the private target 
company just negotiates the best deal it can.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
109 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
How ever, SPACs also tend to create more dilution than traditional IPOs, the fees are often the 
same or higher, and investors often view companies that went public via SPACs as lower 
quality, resulting  in “mixed ” stock -price performance  (at best).  
 
14. Explain why both SPACs and IPOs dilute the existing shareholders and compare the 
relative dilution.  
There’s dilution in both cases because new shares are sold to new investors ; it’s just that in a 
SPAC  deal , it happens in Step 1 when the SPAC is formed and goes public, while in an IPO, it 
happens when the company itself goes public and sells Primary Shares to new investors.  
The main difference is that in a SPAC, the “Sponsor Promote” results in the Sponsor r eceiving 
~20% of the holding company for a very low price (~90% discount), while in an IPO, the Pricing 
Discount gives new investors a modest discount (10 -20%) on the small portion of shares that 
are sold in the IPO.  
Since the effective discount is much gr eater in a SPAC, SPAC deals tend to result in greater 
dilution, i.e., the company’s existing shareholders tend to own a lower percentage of the 
company once it’s publicly traded.  
Return to Top . 
 
Credit Analysis on the Financial Statements  
These topics are more likely to come up if you’ve already had ex perience in credit analysis  in a 
group like DCM, LevFin, corporate banking, or a credit rating agency . 
 
1. Would lenders ever pay attention to scenarios  other  than the Downside cases in a credit 
model ? 
Yes, potentially. Lenders focus on the Downside cases because their upside is limited to the 
interest earned on the Debt, while their downside is “losing everything. ” 
However, some forms of Debt, such as Mezzanine, may offer warrants or equity options, which 
could give the Debt a risk/potential return profile closer to Equity.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
110 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if the Downside case numbers look bad (e.g., a decent chance of recovering only 
80% of a loan’s principal), the lender might do the deal anyway if the warrants make the IRR 
high enough  in the Base or Upside cases  to offset this.  
Also, for hybrid instruments such as Convertible Bonds, lenders will always consider other cases 
because they invest  to capture the equity upside while reducing their downside risk.  
 
2. You are completing credit models for a furniture retailer, a luxury hotel chain, and a real 
estate company that owns multifamily units (i.e., rental apartments).  
Which one of these companies is likely to have the MOST EXTREME Downside case ? 
The luxury hotel chain will have the most extreme Downside case because  hotel spending, 
especially in the luxury segment, declines far more than furniture spending or apartment rent in 
a downturn  since it’s discretionary (no one “needs” to stay at a luxury hotel, but everyone 
needs a place to live).  
 
3. What would cause a company's credit rating to change?  
A company’s credit rating might change if its credit stats and ratios, such as Debt / EBITDA or 
EBITDA /  Interest, change significantly  or its qualitative risk factors change.  
For ex ample, if peer companies with “BB+” credit rating s have Debt / EBITDA between 4x and 
5x, and the Debt / EBITDA of the company you’re analyzing suddenly  jumps to 6x, rating 
agencies are likely to downgrade the company.  
But even if a company’s financial stats stay the same, its credit rating might decline if its 
industry experiences a downturn, a major new competitor enters, or its growth outlook 
declines (for example).  
 
4. Why are ratios such as Debt / EBITDA and EBITDA / Inter est important even if a company’s 
Debt has no maintenance covenants?  
Because lenders and rating agencies still judge a company based on these metrics, even if the 
company is not required  to keep them above or below certain levels.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
111 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, rating agencies often establish credit rating “bands” of Debt / EBITDA ratios (e. g., 
investment -grade companies might have Debt / EBITDA below 2x) and use them as guidelines 
to determine the ratings.  
Also, some lenders become unwilling to lend above certain thresholds. For example, Term Loan 
investors might go up to 2x Debt / EBITDA, and Senior Note investors might go up to 3 -4x Debt / 
EBITDA.  
But if the company wants to raise more Debt once it’s already at 4x Debt / EBITDA , it will have 
to consider sources like Subordinated Notes or Mezzanine.  
 
5. What does it mean if a company's EBITDA Cushion for its Interest Coverage Ratio covenant 
is 10%  in the Downside case , but its Leverage Ratio covenant has a C ushion of 50%?  
This result means that the company’s Deb t / EBITDA ratio is acceptable even if the business 
performs poorly , but its EBITDA / Interest covenant  is in danger of being breached if it 
underperforms.  
The company could solve this issue by negotiating for Debt with lower interest rates but 
offering other favorable terms  for the lender , such as an Original Issue Discount (OID), or by 
refinancing using Debt with out maintenance covenants.  
 
6. A client states that it wants to “minimize WACC” whenever it issues new capital. When is it 
worth completing a separate analysis to assess the change in WACC?  
This analysis is usually worthwhile only if the company’s new capital issuance will be a large 
percentage of its current capital structure , such as more than ~25% of its Enterprise Value . 
If the capital issuance is something like ~5% of its  Enterprise Value, any change in WACC will be 
so small that it won’t be a major decision driver, and it will be fairly obvious which financing 
option is cheapest (e.g., senior Debt, junior Debt, and then Equity).  
 
7. When might it be useful to forecast the MARKET VALUE of a company’s capital structure 
(Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and share count) in a credit analysis?  
Forecasting the capital structure can be useful when the Base and Upside cases are relevant 
due to the presence of a Convertible Bond or because of equity options such as warrants on an 
instrument like Mezzanine or Preferred Stock.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
112 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It’s also important to do this if metrics such as Debt / Total Capital on a market -value basis are 
relevant, as there’s no way to evaluate th em without forecasting the company’s multiples.  
Finally, forecasting the capital structure is useful in distressed and restructuring scenarios to 
assess the recovery (% of the principal paid back) to different lenders if there is a sale , 
liquidation, or ot her transaction in the future.  
 
8. Suppose that you are projecting a company’s Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and share 
count in different scenarios of a credit analysis. What might be different in the Extreme 
Downside Case?  
In the Extreme Downside Case, metrics such as Revenue Growth, EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow 
tend to be lower, and so do the company’s valuation multiples. Therefore, the company’s 
Enterprise Value and Equity Value also tend to be the lowest in this case.  
Anot her difference is that the Debt often represents a significantly higher percentage of the 
capital structure because the Equity Value is so much lower, and the company might need to 
borrow extra due to its lower cash flows  in this case.  
 
9. Suppose a company has several large Debt maturities in 3 -4 years. When would it make 
sense for the company to refinance these in advance rather than waiting until the maturities?  
It makes sense to refinance in advance if interest rates are expected to rise significa ntly, and 
the company would save money by refinancing now to lock in lower rates, even if it has to pay a 
small penalty fee to do that.  
This strategy also tends to make sense if the company’s EBITDA / Interest or related Interest 
Coverage metrics are the m ain constraints , and the company could increase its “ cushion ” by 
locking in lower rates.  
 
10. You are analyzing a company whose Debt / EBITDA stays below the maximum of 4.0x and 
whose EBITDA / Interest stays above the minimum of 2.0x, but whose Debt Service Coverage 
Ratio (DSCR) falls below the minimum of 1.5x  in the more pessimistic cases.  
Why might this happen, and how could the company improve its numbers?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
113 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This tends to happen if the company’s FCF Conversion  (FCF / EBITDA) is low, meaning that its 
CapEx is quite high , its Change in Working Capital is quite negative , or that other items in Cash 
Flow from Operations greatly reduce its cash flow.  
It might also happen if the company can easily cover its normal in terest payments, but it has 
significant principal repayments or other fixed charges, such as lease payments, that consume 
significant portions of its cash flow.  
To improve its DSCR numbers, the company could reduce its CapEx, improve its Working Capital 
management, reduce its lease obligations, or refinance and negotiate for Debt with lower 
principal repayments  (or no repayments at all).  
 
11. Why might you examine Balance Sheet -based credit stats such as Debt / Total Capital in 
addition to the standard EBITDA -based metrics?  
These metrics better indicate whether the company’s WACC is likely to change significantly, as 
WACC is more closely linked to the capital structure than to EBITDA -based metrics.  
These metrics can also be useful in distressed and restructuring scenarios because there’s huge 
variability in outcomes  and terms, and knowing the Debt / Total Capital is important when 
evaluating future refinancing options and the impact of terms such as warrants.  
 
12. A company wants to reduce its cash interest expense on Debt by negotiating with lenders 
to get a lower coupon rate. However, the lenders want to maintain or increase their yield. 
What are the company’s options?  
Assuming this is relatively senior Debt, the main options are to offer the lenders something else 
that boosts their yield in exchange for a lower coupon rate.  
For example, the company could issue the new Debt with an Original Issue Discount (OID) that 
effectively gives lenders an upfront discount ; they could also offer generous call premiums or 
Make -Whole Premiums that result in penalty fees in an early repayment.  
If this is more of a stressed, distressed, or restructuring scenario, other options to boost the 
yield for lenders might include equity options such as warrants attached to the Debt or 
something like a Debt -for-Equity swap.  
Return to Top . 
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
114 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Bond Analysis  
Common questions about bond analysis  relate to prices, yields, duration, convexity, call and 
put options, and companies’ financing and refinancing options.  
It’s good to know the basics for any finance role, but you’re unlikely  to get more complex 
questions, such as how to use mental math to estimate the YTM of a bond, unless you’ve had 
previous credit experience.  
Terminology Note:  We use “Discount Rate” or “p revailing yields on similar bonds” in these 
questions, but many people say “interest rates” to mean the same thing. So, if someone says, 
“What happens to a bond’s price when interest rates rise?” you can translate that to “What 
happens to a bond’s price wh en the Discount Rate rises?”  
Interest rates and yields are related but not the same  – though most people skip over the 
distinction.  
 
1. How do you value a bond?  
The same way you value any other asset: you discount its future cash flows (interest + principal 
repayment) to their Present Values based on an appropriate Discount Rate and add them up.  
With bonds, the “appropriate Discount Rate” is linked to the  prevailing yields  on similar bonds . 
In other words, if investors bought similar companies’ bonds on the secondary market today 
and held them to maturity, what would their annualized return s be? 
If a company issues a 5% fixed coupon rate bond, but similar bonds have 6% yields when held 
to maturity, the Discount  Rate is 6%.  
 
2. What are the main factors that influence a bond's market price?  
The bond’s coupon rate  and prevailing yields on similar bonds  (the Discount Rate) make the 
biggest impact on the bond’s market price.  
Technically, the company’s creditworthiness also factors in because the formula for a bond’s 
price includes the probability of the company repaying the full principal upon maturity.  
However, for most non -distressed companies, this repayment probability is assumed to be 
100%, so it makes a difference only in specialized situations.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
115 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
3. Explain the difference between a bond’s Coupon Rate, Current Yield, and Yield to Maturity 
(YTM) . 
The Coupon Rate represents the fixed interest the bond pays based on its par value . If the 
Coupon Rate is 6% on a $1,000 par value bond, the bond pays $60 in interest per year.  
The Current Yield equals the Annual Coupon Payment / Current Market Price of th e bond. So, if 
this bond currently trades at $1,080, the Current Yield is $60 / $1,080 = ~5.6%.  
And the Yield to Maturity is the internal rate of return (IRR) on a bond, with its current market 
price used as the upfront purchase price.  
The YTM assumes that you hold the bond until maturity, the company makes all interest and 
principal payments in full on the scheduled dates, and that you reinvest the cash flows you earn 
from the bond at the same rate of return . 
To calculate the YTM, we ne ed the bond’s maturity and the Discount Rate. Without that 
information, we can only say  that the YTM is less than the Current Yield of ~5.6%  because this 
bond trades at a premium to par value.  
 
4. You purchase a $100 bond at a 5% discount to par value. The bond's coupon rate is 8%, and 
it matures in 5 years.  
What  is the bond's approximate YTM?  
You can approximate the YTM with:  
(Annual  Interest + (Redemption Value – Bond Price) / # Years to Maturity) / ((Redemption Value 
+ Bond Price) / 2)  
The annual interest is  $8, the redemption value is 100 (since the YTM assumes full repayment ), 
the bond price is 95, and the re are 5 years to maturity, so:  
YTM = (8 + (100 – 95) / 5) / (( 100 + 95) / 2)  
YTM = (8 + 1 ) / 97.5  = 9.2% (You could say, “Between 9% and 10%” or “Just above 9%” ) 
The intuition is that you earn  8% each year from the interest, and you “amortize” the 5% 
discount over the 5 -year maturity, so 8% + ~1% = ~9%.  
 
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
116 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
5. Explain the relationship between a bond’s Market Price vs. its Par Value and its Coupon 
Rate, Current Yield, and YTM.  
If the bond trades at a discount, i.e., its Market Price is below its Par Value, then YTM > Current 
Yield > Coupon Rate.  
If the bond’s Market Price = Par Value, then YTM = Current Yield = Coupon Rate.  
And if the bond trades at a premium, i.e., its Market Price exceeds its Par Value, then YTM < 
Current Yield < Coupon Rate.  
The logic for the Current Yield vs. the Coupon Rate is strai ghtforward: you get a discount when 
the bond trades at a discount, which  increases your annual yield ($50 / $950 is a higher number 
than $50 / $10 00). 
With the YTM vs. the Current Yield, the rationale is that you get a discount or pay a premium 
over a longer period , so this discount or premium makes a greater impact than it does in just 
one year , making  the YTM more different  than the Current Yield.  
 
6. Why is the relationship between bond prices and the Discount Rate (prevailing yields on 
similar bonds or “overall interest rates”) convex?  
“Convex” means that bond prices change  more when yields decline than when they rise  (or 
vice versa).  
For example, if the Discount Rate falls from 8% to 4%, that will change the bond’s price by more 
than the Discount Rate increasing from 1% to 5%.  
This happens because as the Discount Rate decli nes, the “discount factor” in the Present Value 
formula for a bond price  – the 1 / ((1 + Discount Rate) ^ Year #) part  – decreases more and 
more rapidly, so the bond’s price increases non -linearly.  
 
7. Will a 10% or 5% coupon rate bond be more sensitive to changes in the Discount Rate?  
The 5% coupon rate bond will be more sensitive because bondholders receive less in interest 
payments during the holding period, so they depend more on the final principal repayment at 
the end – and the PV of that final repayment is affected only  by the Discount Rate.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
117 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A higher percentage of the total cash flows  on a 10% bond comes  from the interest paid during 
the holding period, and the PV of each interest payment is affected by both  the coupon rate 
and the Discount Rate.  
 
8. You are analyzing an 8% 10 -year bond and an 8% 20 -year bond. Prevailing yields on similar 
bonds now fall from 8% to 6%. Which bond’s market price will change the most?  
The 20 -year bond ’s price will change the most because it’s more sensitive to changes in the 
Discount Rate ; more terms in the Present Value formula will change, and the compounding of 
these  changes over time will create a greater effect.  
 
9. Intuitively, what do a bond’s Duration and Convexity mean, and how do you use them?  
Duration is the first derivative of the bond’s price with respect to its YTM, and Convexity is the 
second derivative of the bond’s price with respect to its YTM.  
They both measure the bond price’s sensitivity to changes in the Discount Rate, a llowing  us to 
predict how a bond’s price will change.  
You can also think of Duration as: “How long does it take for the market price of a bond to be 
repaid with its internal cash flows  (on a weighted -average year basis) ?” 
For investors, these metrics measure interest -rate risk ; higher numbers mean the prices of 
their bonds will change by greater percentages when overall interest rates change.  
 
10. Without using a calculator or Excel, estimate the Duration of a 15 -year , 5% coupon bond. 
Assume the Discount Rate is also 5%.  
Duration is the number of years it takes for the bond’s cash flows to pay for the bond’s upfront 
purchase price  (on a weighted -average year basis).  
The 15 -year bond’s Duration will be less than 15 because it has a positive coupon rate, so you 
will not need to wait 15 years to recover everything (and the bond’s market price = par value 
because the Discount Rate = the coupon rate).  
After 10 years, the bond will have paid 10* 5% = 50% of its par value in interest payments.  
Over the next 5 years, the bond will pay 5 * 5% = 25% of its par value in interest, and there will 
be a full repayment for 100 % of its par value upon maturity.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
118 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Therefore, the Duration is weighted toward the last 5 years  because 125% of the bond’s par 
value arrives then vs. only 50% in the first 10 years.  
You could estimate this as “between 10 and 15”; in Excel, it’s ~10. 7. 
 
11. What would happen to the Duration in the previous question if the Discount Rate 
increased to 10%?  
This 15 -year bond would trade at a discount to par value, reducing  the upfront purchase price.  
We don’t know what the exact change would be, but for a longer -term bond like this, we could 
guesstimate it as a ~50% discount because the Discount Rate has doubled , which  will impact 
every single term in the PV formula over the next 15 years.  
At a 50% discount, you would earn back the full purchase price on or  before  Year 10 because 10 
* 5% = 50% of the bond’s par value in interest payments.  
It’s still weighted toward the last 5 years of the holding period because 125% of the bond’s par 
value is repaid then, but it’s less weighted  toward these last 5 years . 
You could estimate the Duration as “slightly less than 10” in this case. In Excel, it’s 9.4  (and the 
bond’s discount to par value is closer to 40% than 50% ). 
 
12. Whic h type s of bond s have the highest Duration and Convexity?  Why?  
Zero -coupon bonds, such as many convertible  bonds , have the highest Duration and Convexity 
because their prices are the most sensitive  to changes in the Discount Rate.  
Since zero -coupon bonds pay no interest, their value depends on ONLY the principal repayment 
when the bond matures and the Discount Rate used to discount that payment . 
Intuitively, the Duration for a 10 -year zero -coupon bo nd that trades at par value is always 10 
because the bondholder receives no interest payments  before maturity, so it takes the full 10 
years to earn back the upfront price.  
 
13. Interest rates have fallen, and prevailing bond yields are now down by ~2% compared to 
when a company originally issued an 8%, 7 -year bond.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
119 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This company wants to refinance and issue a new bond to the same investors with a 6% 
coupon rate and a 10 -year maturity.  
Why might it not be able to do this? 
The problem is the Duration , which measures interest -rate risk. We can glance at these 
numbers and tell the Duration will be significantly higher for the 10 -year bond with a lower 
coupon rate than it will be for the 7 -year bond with a higher coupon rate.  
Even if overall interest rat es fall, bond investors want to maintain their interest -rate risk in a 
similar range, and they manage their portfolios based on  metrics like Duration.  
This company would likely have to offer a shorter maturity or boost the bond’s YTM via other 
methods (such as OID) to compensate investors for this higher Duration.  
 
14. A company has a 7%, 10 -year bond with 5 years left until maturity. A group of investors 
just bought the bond at 10 9% of its par value . 
The company wants to refinance because prevailing yields on similar bonds are now 5% 
rather than 7%.  
To refinance , the company must call the bond and pay a 103% redemption premium.  
If the company does this, what terms should it offer on its new issuance?  
To answer this question, start by calculating the Yield to Exit  on the existing bond , which 
represents what the investors will earn if they hold it until the early repayment date.  
We can approximate the YTE with:  
(Annual  Interest + (Redemption Value – Bond Price) / # Years to Exit) / ((Redemption Value + 
Bond Price) / 2)  
Assuming  a face v alue of $100 for the existing bond, the annual interest is $7.  
The redemption value is 103 , the bond price is 109, and there are 5 years to maturity, so:  
YTE = (7 + (103 – 109) / 5) / (( 103 + 109) / 2)  
YTE = (7  – 1.2) / 106 = ~5.5%. 
Therefore, if the company offers a 5% coupon rate on this new issuance with the same maturity 
(5 years), it will be too low for the investors.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
120 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The company will have to issue the new bond at a modest discount (~2 -3%) to add this extra 
0.5% yield or offer to repay slightly mo re than the par value upon maturity.  
Intuition:  The investors earn 7% per year in interest and lose just over 1% per year as the 
bond’s price goes from 109 to 103 over 5 years. Therefore, you could approximate the YTE as 
“just below 6%.”  
 
15. As a discount or premium bond approaches maturity, how do its Clean Price and Dirty 
Price change?  
Both the Clean Price and Dirty Price approach par value as the bond approaches maturity, but 
the Clean Price changes in a “step -like” fashion where it stays the same for a quarter, half -year, 
or year , and then changes once a coupon payment is made . 
By contrast, the Dirty Price continuously  increases in each period between coupon payments as 
the bond accr ues more interest  since the Dirty Price = Clean Price + Accru ed Interest.  
So, a graph of the Dirty Price looks like squiggly lines or zig -zags that increase continuously in 
each period and then “reset” back to the Clean Price upon coupon payment.  
 
16. Should the coupon rate of a bond with call protection be higher or lower than one 
without call protection?  
The coupon rate should be lower  because the call protection reduces  the risk for the bond 
investors. Lower risk means lower potential return s, so the coupon rate should be lower to 
reflect this.  
Call protection reduces  the risk for investors by ensuring that the company cannot repay the 
bonds early in the first few years  after the issuance ; after that, some form of early repayment is 
often allowed, but only with a penalty fee attached (also protecting the investors).  
 
17. Explain the difference between Make -Whole Prices and Call Premiums ( AKA Redemption 
Prices/Premiums) and how they reduce the risk for bond investors.  
Make -Whole Prices usually apply to the first few years following a bond issuance and act as 
very high penalty fees to discourage companies from repaying bonds extremely early.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
121 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Make -Whole Price is based on the PV of the bond’s future cash flows at a Dis count Rate 
that’s just above the risk -free rate, such as the 10 -year U.S. Treasury Yield + 0.5%.  
Since this Discount Rate is usually below the prevailing yields on corpo rate bonds  similar to the 
company’s bond, the Make -Whole Price is usually much higher than the bond’s par value (a 10 -
20% premium is common ), which makes early repayment unwise in most cases.  
If overall interest rates have risen  since the initial issuance, meaning t he Make -Whole Price is 
much lower, refinancing does not make sense because the company would have to pay a higher 
coupon rate on the new issuance.  
Call Premiums usually apply in the years following this initial period of a bond’s tenor, and they 
are typically structured as fixed percentages of the bond’s par value (e.g., if the company repays 
the bond in Year 5, it must pay 105% of par value, which drops to 104% in Year 6, 103% in Year 
7, etc.).  
The penalty fees start high and scale down over time because investors’ returns fall the most  if 
the company calls the bond very early into its maturity, such as Year 2 rather than Year 9.  
 
18. What is the Yield to Worst (YTW), and how is it related to the Yield to Maturity?  
The Yield to Worst equals the minimum  of all the bond’s Yield to Call (YTC) numbers on all the 
possible call date s and the YTM.  
It helps investors evaluate the worst -case outcome for the bond’s yield , assuming the company 
still repays the bond in full . 
If the Discount Rate exceeds  the bond’s coupon rate, meaning the bond trades at a discount, 
the YTW = YTM. With a discount bond, investors earn a higher yield in the case of an early 
repayment at par val ue (or more than par value) because that discount is “spread out ” over 
fewer years.  
If the Discount Rate is less than or equal to the bond’s coupon rate, meaning the bond trades at 
par value or a premium to it, the YTW <= YTM because the premium the bond i nvestors pay is 
spread out over fewer years, so the yield decreases.  
Bankers often use the YTW when reviewing Debt Comps (see below) and when they advise 
companies on their refinancing options . 
 
19. What are the most important statistics in an analysis of Comparable Debt Issuances?  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
122 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You typically screen the issuances by industry, geography, size, time, and credit rating  (e.g., only 
the bonds of investment -grade media companies  based in the U.S. over the past 4  years, worth 
at least $100 million ). 
You look at statistics such as the median coupon r ate, offering amount, bond price, maturity, 
YTW, YTM, and the leverage and coverage ratios  to determine the proper terms to offer on a 
potential issuance for the company you are advising.  
For Convertible Bonds, you would also look at the me dian Conversion Ratio and Conversion 
Premium to ensure that your offering is in -line with similar, recent issuances.  
 
20. If a company wants to extend the maturity of its bonds by refinancing, how might you 
advise it?  
At a high level, you want to ensure that the bond investors earn a similar yield with a similar 
risk profile when the company refinances its bonds , even if th e maturity is longer.  
You can measure these attributes with the YTM, YTW, and Duration of the bonds and the 
company’s credit rating before and after the issuance.  
You would aim to issue new bonds that offer a similar yield and Duration and do not negativel y 
impact the company’s credit rating.  
For example, a longer maturity with the same coupon rate and Discount Rate increases the 
bond’s Duration, so the interest -rate ris k increases.  
Therefore, the company might have to offer a higher coupon rate , issue the bonds at a 
discount , or offer call premiums so that it pays penalty fee s if there’s an early repayment; all of 
these would increase the YTM and YTW for investors.  
Return to Top . 
 
Convertible Bonds  
Questions about Convertible Bonds are more likely in ECM than in DCM or LevFin because the 
ECM group usually advises on these issuances . 
These questions are much less likely than the standard ones about IPO s and Follow -On 
Offerings , but they are possible – especially if the firm you’re interviewing with advises many 
tech and biotech companies.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
123 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
1. A company issues $100 million of Convertible Bonds wi th a Par Value of $1,000 and a 
Conversion P remium of 50%. Its current stock price is $66.67 . 
How many new shares will be created  if the company’s stock price increases to the 
Conversion Price  and the investors convert their bonds into shares?  
The Conversion Price is $100.00, or $66.67 * (1 + 50%), and the Conversion Ratio = Par Value / 
Conversion Price = $1,000 / $100.00 = 10.0, so each bond converts into 10 shares.  
There are 100,000 individual bonds because $100 million / $1,000 = 100,000.  
One million new s hares will be created  since 10 shares per bond * 100,000 bond s = 1 million 
shares.  
 
2. At a high level, what are the two main ways to record a Convertible Bond issuance on the 
financial statements, and how do they differ under U.S. GAAP vs. IFRS ? 
The two main options are to record a single Liability for the Convertible Bond based on its face 
value minus the issuance fees  or to split the Convertible Bond into Liability and Equity 
components  and deduct the issuance fees from just the Liability . 
In th e second case, the Equity component is based on the face value of the Convertible Bond 
minus its value as a traditional bond  (i.e., discount and sum up its cash flows using the coupon 
rate on a n equivalent non-convertible bond for the Discount Rate).  
This “Debt Discount” and the issuance fees amortize each year and increase the Liability until 
there is a maturity or conversion.  
The first treatment – a simple Liability – is far more common under U.S. GAAP, while the second 
is more common under IFRS.  
The criteria for each method depend on factors such as the accounting system, whether the 
conversion option is classified as a Liability, whether the bonds were issued with a substantial 
premium, whether there’s a cash -settlement option, etc.  
 
3. Explain how the financial statements change when a Convertible Bond matures and is fully 
repaid by the company vs. when there is a conversion into equity before maturity.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
124 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the Convertible Bond matures, the Liability representing the bond goes to $0, and the Cash 
balance on the Assets side of the Balance Sheet decreases due to this repayment (if the 
company refinances, another Liability will increase to represent the new Debt used).  
If there is a conversion into equity, the entire Liability is “re -classifi ed” into Equity based on the 
book value of the Liability at the time of the conversion (i.e., the face value minus unamortized 
issuance fees).  
Under the split Liability/Equity system, the changes are similar, but the Equity component stays 
in place when there’s a maturity without a conversion ; if there’s a conversion, both the Liability 
and the Equity component are set to $0 and re -classified into a separate line item within Equity.  
 
4. Which factors make the biggest impact on a Convertible Bond’s market price ? 
The most important factors are the company’s current stock price vs. the Conversion Price, the 
volatility of the company’s stock price, and the bond’s coupon rate vs. the Discount Rate (i.e., 
the coupon rate on equivalent n on-convertible debt).  
The more likely a Convertible Bond is to convert into equity, the higher its price , so a bond with 
a Conversion Price and a stock price that are close together will be worth more. Higher volatility 
also increases the bond’s market pri ce because it increases the chances of a conversion.  
If the Convertible Bond’s coupon rate is closer to the rate on equivalent non -convertible debt, 
the Liability component will be worth more, which boosts the entire bond’s price.  
Factors such as the risk -free rate, the company’s Dividend Yield, and the maturity/tenor of the 
bond also play a role , but they’re less important than the points above.  
 
5. Which qualities would make a Con vertible Bond closer to “Hedged  Equity ” rather than 
traditional Debt?  
The closer a Convertible Bond is to converting into equity, the more it is like “Hedged Equity,” 
so the difference between the current stock price and the Conversion Price is a big factor.  
Also, the lower the coupon rate on the bon d, the closer it is to “ Hedged  Equity .” 
You can also look at metrics such as the Payback Period , or the number of years it takes to earn 
back the premium paid for purchasing a Convertible Bond rather than the underlying shares ; 
the longer the Payback Period, the closer the bond is to “ Hedged  Equity.”  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
125 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
6. It seems like Convertible Bonds are “too good to be true” since they offer the upside 
potential of common shares but also downside protection if the company’s stock price falls.  
Why would anyone purchase common shares if the company also has Convertible Bonds?  
The downside is that Convertible Bonds cost more  than the equivalent number of common 
shares , particularly if an investor buys them on the secondary market rather than in a primary 
issuance directly from the company.  
For example, if the Conversion Premium is 30%, getting the same number of shares via a 
Convertible Bond will cost at least  30% more than buying the underlying shares . 
So, yes, investors get downside protection  from Convertible Bond s, but they also pay extra for 
it, which is why it’s not “too good to be true.”  
 
7. Your co -worker is creating a Payoff Diagram for a Convertible Bond. He claims that the 
market price will exceed the bond’s payoff value when the company’s share price reaches the 
Conversion Price, and that above the Conversion Price, the market price will remain above 
the payoff value.  
Is he correct, incorrect, or partially correct?  
He is partially correct. In a Payoff Diagram, the bond’s market price will remain above its payoff 
value when the stock price exceeds the Conversion Price because the bond offer s downside 
protection  to investors, unlike the underlying shares.  
However, he is incorrect about the first part: the market price typically exceeds the bond’s 
payoff value starting at a share price below  the Conversion Price.  
This is because the possibility  of converting into common shares increases the bond’s market 
price and makes it worth more than its payoff at this level (the face value of the bond).  
 
8. Walk me through how a company might set up a “call spread” or “note hedge” to reduce 
dilution or raise the effective Conversion Price of a Convertible Bond . Assume 15 million 
potentially dilutive shares  from the bond and a Conversion Price of $250.00.  
With this structure, the company purchases call options on its stock equal to the number of 
potentially dilutive shares (so, 15 million call options in this case).  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
126 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The company then sells warrants on its stock  to the same counterparty at a higher exercise 
price, such as $325.00 or $350.00 (few counterparties will write and sell call options without 
owning the underlying stock  – the warrants effectively lim it their losses ). 
The c ompany's call option s will offset the dilution from the Convertible Bond, while the 
warrants it sells to the counterparty will create dilution – but only at a higher share price.  
The company pays Call Option Price * 15 million – Warrant Price * # Sold Warrants to set up  
this structure ; the net price of this call spread amortized over the Convertible Bond’s tenor is 
typically a small percentage of the bond’s face value.  
 
9. Suppose that in a WACC analysis, you do NOT want to treat Convertible Bonds as either 
Debt or Equity, depending on the company’s share price, but as a separate item.  
How c ould you calculate the Cost of Convertible Bonds in this case?  
You could split the Convertible Bond into components and use the After -Tax Cost of Debt * 
Market Value of Liability component , based on the coupon rate of equivalent non -convertible 
debt, for the Cost contribution of this Liability component.  
To assess the  Cost contribution of the Equity component, you could take its market value 
according to the Black -Scholes formula and multiply it by the Cost of the Conversion Option.  
The Cost of the Conversion Option equals Risk -Free Rate + Equity Risk Premium * Option Beta , 
where the Option Beta equals Option Elasticity * Levered Beta, and Option Elasticity equals 
Option Delta * Conversion Value / Market Value of Equity Component.  
You could then add the Cost contributions of both components to get the “blended cost” of the 
Convertible Bond.  
In plain English, the Cost of the Conversion Option is higher  than the Cost of Equity because the 
option’s price is more sensitive  to changes in th e underlying share price; this explains why the 
Cost of Convertible Bonds is between the Cost of Debt and the Cost of Equity.  
 
10. Explain intuitively why a Convertible Bond  is not necessarily “cheaper” than traditional 
Debt, even though some people claim it is. 
The cash cost  of a Convertible Bond  is lower than the cash cost  of a traditional bond  because 
the coupon rate  is lower, meaning the company pays less in interest each year.  
 Access the Financial Modeling Course  
 
127 of 127 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
However, a Convertible Bond  is not truly cheaper than traditional Debt because of the 
embedded conversion option , which makes the bond act more like Equity at higher share 
prices around and above the Conversion Price.  
Convertible Bonds are cheaper th an traditional Equity in most cases because of the 
contribution from the Liability component, which acts more like traditional Debt.  
 
11. Suppose a company has set up a note hedge or call spread, as described in question # 8 
above. How does this structure affect the Cost of Convertible Bonds?  
The Cost of Convertible Bonds decrease s because the effective Conversion Price increase s with 
this structure, so the Equity component has a lower market value , and the blended cost is more 
heavily weighted to the “traditional Debt” component.  
The Cost of the Conversion Option increase s due to this higher Conversion Price, but it’s not 
enough to offset the reduction in the Equity component’s market value, so the blended cost of 
the Convertible Bond s till decrease s. 
However, the cash cost  of the Convertible Bonds now increases because it costs the company 
something  to buy the call options and sell the warrants on its stock. This amount must be 
amortized and added to the bond’s coupon rate to compare the cash costs properly . 
Return to Top . 