 
1 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Advanced Financial Modeling, Module 3: More Advanced Accounting  (Reference Module)  
You’ll start this module by learning about the Book Value, Face Value, and Market Value of 
Debt, and how they differ because of items such as Issuance Fees and Original Issue Discount 
(OID). You’ll also learn about different types of Debt, non -cash or Paid -in-Kind (PIK) Interest, 
and convertible bond accounting.  
Then, you’ll learn about Equity Investments and Noncontrolling Interests, see how th ey get 
created and flow through the financial statements, and see what happens when they disappear 
as companies deconsolidate their statements.  
You’ll wrap up with a few lessons on more specific topics, such as the tax treatment of Stock -
Based Compensation , Unrealized Gains and Losses on different types of securities, FIFO vs. LIFO 
for Inventory, and introductory Pension Accounting for defined -benefit pension plans.  
 
AFM -03-01: Debt Issuance Fees and the Book Value vs. Face Value of Debt  (20:41 ) 
In this les son, you’ll learn the difference between the Book Value and Face Value of Debt, and 
you’ll learn how to amortize Debt issuance fees and reflect the proper accounting treatment 
when an entire Debt issuance is repaid before its maturity date.  
Table of Conten ts: 
• 2:45:  Book Value vs. Face Value and Debt Issuance Fees  
• 5:58:  Initial Issuance and Repayment Upon Maturity  
• 11:52:  Early Repayment of Debt  
• 17:37:  Deferred Taxes  
• 18:42:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
11:51 When do the Book Value and Face Value of a Debt issuance differ the MOST?  
a) When the Debt is first issued.  
b) Upon maturity , when  the Debt is repaid.  
c) It depends on the Amortization schedule for the issuance fees.  
d) It depends on whether or not early principal repayments are allowed.  
Explanation:  The first answer choice is correct. The Book Value and Face Value of Debt always 
differ the most when the Debt is FIRST ISSUED because at that point, Book Value = Face Value – 
Issuance Fees. Each year after that, the difference narrows as more  of the Issuance Fees are 
amortized. The second answer is completely wrong because Book Value = Face Value upon 
 
2 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
maturity, and this question has nothing to do with the Amortization schedule or early principal 
repayments (they don’t affect the percentage dif ference – just the amount of remaining fees to 
be amortized).  
 
AFM -03-02: Market Value of Debt  (11:41 ) 
You’ll learn about the Market Value of Debt in this lesson, why it might differ from the Book 
Value of Debt, and how it might influence a company’s finan cial statements – even though 
changes in the Market Value do not make a direct impact.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:37:  The Market Value of Debt  
• 2:44:  Excel Setup and Calculations  
• 8:52:  So… Why Does This Matter?  
• 10:29:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
8:52 If prevailing yields on similar Debt Issuances are initially 5%, the company issues Debt 
with a coupon rate of 5%, and then prevailing yields rise to 7%, what happens to the Market 
Value of this company’s Debt?  
a) It should increase because investors can now ear n a higher yield.  
b) It should decrease because this Debt is now comparatively less attractive than other 
issuances.  
c) We need additional information about the company’s credit quality and the maturity of 
the Debt to answer this question.  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is correct. When the Discount Rate goes up, the Present 
Value of any security, including a bond (Debt), decreases because it means that there are other, 
higher -yielding options in the market. The first answer makes no sense, and the third answer is 
partially true because if the credit quality or maturity changes, those could also affect the 
Market Value. However, we don’t *need* that information to answer the question – if they stay 
the same, we can predict the change i n Market Value using only the change in prevailing yields.  
 
AFM -03-03: Debt Discounts, Premiums, and Original Issue Discount (OID)  (20:58 ) 
 
3 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to reflect an Original Issue Discount (OID) on the financial 
statements, and how it changes with early Debt principal repayment and unusual amortization 
schedules; you’ll also make the formulas for Debt Issuance Fees more robust.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:53:  Introduction  
• 3:10:  OID Without Debt Repayments  
• 8:58:  OID With Debt Repayments  
• 14:51:  Generalizing the Issuance Fee Formulas  
• 18:47:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
14:50 If a company issues $100 of Debt with a 10 -year maturity and an OID of $5, and it then 
repays $0 of the principal in Year 1 and all $100 in Year 2, wha t happens to the OID in Years 1 
and 2?  
a) It decreases by $0.0 in Year 1, and then the full $5.0 is amortized in Year 2.  
b) It decreases by $0.5 in Year 1 and by $0.5 in Year 2, following the normal straight -line 
schedule.  
c) It decreases by $0.5 in Year 1, and the n the full remaining $4.5 is amortized in Year 2.  
d) None of the above.  
Explanation:  The third answer choice is correct. When there is no Debt principal repayment, 
OID simply amortizes on a straight -line schedule, at $5 / 10 = $0.5 per year in this case. That 
rules out answer choice #1. When the company repays Debt principal, then it reduc es the OID 
balance proportionally to the amount of Debt principal repaid relative to the initial Face Value 
of the Debt. So, if it is 50% repayment, the OID will fall by 50%, split into Amortization and 
“Loss” components (the Loss just represents accelerat ed Amortization). When it’s 100%, as in 
this question, the full amount of remaining OID is “amortized” in Year 2 (with $0.5 of actual 
Amortization and $4.0 recorded as a “Loss”) . 
 
AFM -03-04: Introduction to Convertible Bond Accounting  (23:10 ) 
You’ll learn how and why companies issue Convertible Bonds in this lesson, and you’ll 
understand how the accounting works from the initial issuance to the Amortization of the Debt 
Discount and the eventual conversion or maturity of the Bond.  
Table of Contents:  
 
4 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 0:59:  Convertible Bond Accounting  
• 2:42:  Step 1: Initial Convertible Bond Issuance  
• 5:21:  Step 2: Handling Maturities and Conversions  
• 8:15:  Step 3: Amortization of the Debt Discount  
• 12:37:  Step 4: Linking the Statements  
• 21:30:  Step 5: Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
8:14 When forecasting the Conversions line item for a Convertible Bond, why is it convenient 
to use the MIN function with the Beginning Face Value of the Bond?  
a) To handle the case where the maturity happens before the conversion . 
b) To handle the case where part of the Convertible Bond principal, but not all of it, is 
repaid early.  
c) To handle the case where the company repurchases the Bond early at a premium.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The first answer choice is correct. Since the user of our mo del could set the 
Maturity Year and the Conversion Year to any numbers, we need to check for the case where 
the conversion is in Year 5, but the maturity is in Year 3 (for example) and ensure that the Face 
Value only goes to $0 once. To do that, it’s conve nient to use MIN to check the potential 
conversion in a year against the beginning Face Value in that year. The second answer is wrong 
because early partial repayment is almost unheard of for Convertible Bonds, and we’re not 
handling the third scenario in this model.  
 
21:30 What is the PRIMARY difference in the accounting treatment s of Original Issue Discount 
(OID) on a Traditional Bond vs. the Discount on a Convertible Bond?  
a) The tax  deductibility of the Amortization of OID and the Convertible Bond Discount 
differ.  
b) The Convertible Bond Discount does not amortize over time, but the Original Issue 
Discount does.  
c) When a Convertible Bond converts into shares, both its components are transferred 
into Common Shareholders’ Equity.  
d) Book Value and Face Value tend to be closer for a Traditional Bond.  
Explanation:  The third answer choice is correct. When a Traditional Bond with OID is repaid 
early, the remaining Unamortized OID shows up as a Loss on the Income Statement, and the 
Book Value and Face Value both go  to 0. But with a Convertible Bond, an early conversion 
 
5 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
results in both the Liability and Equity components being transferred into Common 
Shareholders’ Equity.  The tax -deductibility of these items does not differ, and both amortize 
over time, so the first two answers are wrong. The last answer is wrong because Book Value 
and Face Value are not necessarily any closer for a Traditional Bond – it depends on the interest 
rates and credit quality of the company.  
 
AFM -03-05: Types of Debt and Paid -in-Kind Interes t (PIK)  (11:11 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll learn about different types of Debt, including the Secured vs. Unsecured 
categories, and you’ll understand how non -cash, accrued, or paid -in-kind (PIK) interest flows 
through the financial statements.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:39:  Types of Debt  
• 3:48:  Mechanics of PIK Interest  
• 7:06:  Financial Statement Links  
• 9:35:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:34 When interest on Debt is Paid -in-Kind (PIK) for one period, what happens to the Debt’s 
Book Value and Face Value?  
a) Book Value increases, but Face Value stays the same.  
b) They both increase.  
c) Face Value increases, but Book Value stays the same.  
d) Neither Face Value nor Book Value increase.  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is correct. PIK Interest increases both the Book Value 
and Face Value of the Debt because it means the company will have to pay interest on a higher 
principal in the future, and it also means that the corresponding Liability line i tem on the 
Balance Sheet will increase, even more than it already increases from the Amortization of 
issuance fees and OID.  
 
AFM -03-06: Book Value vs . Market Value vs . Face Value of Bonds: How to Keep Them All 
Straight  (19:13 ) 
 
6 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You’ll get a summary of the k ey Debt -related points from the first five lessons in this module 
here, and you’ll learn how to apply Face Value, Book Value, and Market Value to real Debt 
schedules for Toro and Atlassian.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:55:  Short Summary  
• 3:11:  Toro Debt Schedule  
• 8:05:  Atlassian Debt Schedule  
• 17:27:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
8:04 How can you SIMPLIFY a Debt Schedule for a company that is continuously issuing and 
repaying Debt if you want to reflect the Book Value and Face Value each year?  
a) Assume t hat the average maturity for each Debt issuance is beyond the end of the 
projection period.  
b) Do not track the Issuance Fees as a separate line item; just the Amortization and initial 
deduction for them.  
c) Ignore the possibility of accelerated Issuance Fee amo rtization upon early repayment.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is correct. Debt Schedules are much simpler if the maturities and 
full repayments do not happen within the schedule (answer #1) because then you do not have 
to handle accelerated Issuance Fee or OID Amortization (answer #3). Also, you can save time 
and space by not tracking Issuance Fees separately; just deduct the initial fees from the Book 
Value and add the Amortization of those fees in each period.  
 
AFM -03-07: Equity Method of Accounting (Equity Investments or Associate Companies), Part 
1: Net Income and Dividends  (15:54)  
In this lesson, you’ll learn what happens on the three financial statements when a company first 
purchases a minority stake (Equity Investment ) in another company, and you’ll see how the 
other company’s Net Income and Dividends flow through the statements.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:01:  Equity Method of Accounting ("Equity Investments" or "Associate Companies")  
• 5:50: Part 1: Initial Purchase of a Mino rity Stake  
• 10:22:  Part 2: Net Income and Dividends from Equity Investments  
 
7 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 13:51:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
13:50 A Parent Company purchases a 40% stake in another company for $40 at the end of 
Year 1. The other company generates $10 in Net Income and issues $5 in Dividends in Year 2. 
What is the Equity Investments line item on the Parent Company’s Balance Sheet at the end 
of Year 2?  
a) $45.  
b) $35.  
c) $38.  
d) $42.  
e) Cannot answer this question without knowing the Parent Company’s Tax Rate.  
Explanation:  The fourth answer choice is correct. The initial purchase creates an Equity 
Investment of $40. Then, the Parent records 40% * $10 = $4 of Net Income from the Associate 
on its Income Statement. It then reverses this $4 on the CFS and records 40% * $5 = $2 for 
Dividends. The $4 adds to Equity Investments on the Balance Sheet, and the $2 reduces it. $40 
+ $4 – $2 = $42.  The Tax Rate of the Parent does not matter at all, so the last answer choice is 
wrong.  
 
AFM -03-08: Equity Method of Accounting (Equity Invest ments or Associate Companies), Part 
2: Changing the Ownership and Gains and Losses  (11:50 ) 
You’ll learn how to record changes in minority stakes (Equity Investments) in this lesson, 
including how Realized Gains and Losses work, and why determining the cost  basis can be 
tricky.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:56:  Increasing the Stake  
• 2:15: Sales and Realized Gains and Losses  
• 7:56:  Testing the Model  
• 9:54:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
 
8 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
9:53 Company A has a 30% stake in Company B in Year 2  when 100% of Company B is worth 
$200. Then, in Year 2, Company B’s value increases to $250, and Company A sells its entire 
stake. Why is the Gain NOT necessarily equal to $15?  
a) Because Company A might have acquired portions of its stake in Company B at different  
valuations.  
b) Because Company A’s cost basis in Company B might have been affected by Net Income 
and Dividends from Company B.  
c) Because Company A might have previously sold portions of its stake in Company B at 
different valuations.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. The point of this question is that the Cost Basis when 
selling an Equity Investment is not necessarily its market value * ownership percentage just 
before the sale – it could also be affected by acquisitions and sales  at different prices, as well as 
cumulative Net Income and Dividends. Remember that Equity Investments are recorded at 
historical cost and are not marked to market value.  
 
AFM -03-09: Consolidation Accounting (Noncontrolling Interests), Part 1: Acquiring an  Initial 
Majority Stake  (19:27 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll get an introduction to Noncontrolling Interests, and you’ll learn how to 
combine and adjust the Balance Sheets when one company acquires a majority stake (between 
50% and 100%) of another company.  
Tabl e of Contents:  
• 5:26:  Part 1: Recording the Starting State  
• 10:49:  Part 2: Transaction Assumptions and Goodwill  
• 13:19:  Part 3: Assets Side Adjustments  
• 15:00:  Part 4: L&E Side Adjustments  
• 17:33:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
13:18 When a company acquires 70% of another company rather than 30%, how does the 
Goodwill calculation differ?  
a) No Goodwill is created in either scenario.  
b) Goodwill is created based on 100% of the company’s equity purchase price in the first 
case, but no Goodwill is created in the second case.  
 
9 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
c) Goodwill is created based on 70% of the company’s equity purchase price in the first 
case, but no Goodwill is created in the second case.  
d) Goodwill is created based on 70% of the company’s equity purchase price in the first 
case, but it’s based on 30% in the second case.  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is correct. Since the statements are consolidated 100%, 
the new Goodwill must be based on 100% of the target company’s equity purchase price when 
there’s a majority -stake acquisiti on for more than 50% but less than 100% of the target 
company. In a minority -stake deal, no Goodwill is created because the statements are not 
consolidated at all. The other answer choices all get this wrong.  
 
AFM -03-10: Consolidation Accounting (Noncontrolling Interests), Part 2: Combining the 
Financials and Reflecting Net Income and Dividends  (20:40 ) 
You’ll learn how to consolidate fully the financial statements of the Parent and Sub Co in this 
lesson, including how the Net Income and Dividends for each entity flow into Common 
Shareholders’ Equity and Noncontrolling Interests.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:54:  Part 1: Combined Income Statement  
• 5:09: Part 2: Combined Balance Sheet  
• 6:49:  Part 3: Combined Cash Flow Statement  
• 12:42:  Part 4: Linking the Balance Sheet  
• 18:42:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
12:4 2 If a Parent Company owns 80% of Sub Co, and the Sub Co issues a Dividend of $10, 
what is the *net cash flow impact* on the Parent Company’s Cash Flow Statement?  
a) It decreases by $8.  
b) It decreases by $10.  
c) It decreases by $2.  
d) It increases by $2.  
Explanation:  The Parent records 100% of the Sub Co’s Dividends, which represents a cash 
outflow of $10, but then it records 80% * $10 = $8 of Dividends Received, which is a cash 
inflow. Therefore, cash flow decreases by $2, or $10 * (1 – Ownership Percentage).  
 
 
10 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
AFM -03-11: Consolidation Accounting (Noncontrolling Interests), Part 3: Selling the Stake and 
Deconsolidating the Financials  (20:46 ) 
In this final lesson in the sequence on Noncontrolling Interest s, you’ll learn how to 
deconsolidate the financial statements when the parent company sells part of its stake in 
another company and reduces its ownership to a minority stake.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:24:  Part 1: Transaction Assumptions  
• 7:29:  Part 2: Balance Sheet Adjustments  
• 11:00:  Part 3: Financial Statements in Year 5  
• 18:59:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
10:59 Which of the following does NOT necessarily change on the Balance Sheet when a 
company moves from a majority stake to a minority stake in another company?  
a) The Goodwill that was created in the initial acquisition of the majority stake.  
b) The Equity Investments and Noncontrolling Interests.  
c) The New Transaction Debt that was used to fund the initial acquisition of the majority 
stake.  
d) Operational Assets, such as Accounts Receivable and Inventory.  
Explanation:  The third answer choice is correct. When a company goes from a majority stake to 
a minority stake in another company, the Goodwill created in the original deal must be 
remov ed, and Equity Investments and Noncontrolling Interests must change to reflect the new 
ownership. All of the other company’s Assets and Liabilities must also be removed, which 
means that Operational Assets will definitely change. However, the New Transacti on Debt used 
to fund the initial deal won’t necessarily change because the company is not required to repay 
it when its ownership changes.  
 
AFM -03-12: Stock -Based Compensation, Tax Benefits, and Excess Tax Benefits (U.S. GAAP and 
IFRS)  (21:21 ) 
You’ll learn  about Stock -Based Compensation and how the exercise of options creates Tax 
Benefit and Excess Tax Benefit line items on the financial statements in this lesson, as well as 
how the accounting treatment and Deferred Tax Asset differ under U.S. GAAP and IFRS . 
Table of Contents:  
 
11 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 0:38:  Part 1: Stock -Based Compensation Overview  
• 1:47:  Part 2: Assumptions  
• 4:12:  Part 3: Linking the Statements  
• 9:02:  Part 4: How IFRS is Different  
• 15:20:  Part 5: Linking the Statements Under IFRS  
• 19:19:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:01 Under U.S. GAAP, if a company records $20 of Stock -Based Compensation on its Income 
Statement in Year 1, and then its value increases to $40 in Year 5, when employees receive 
their shares, how does the Deferred Tax Asset change?  Assume a 25 % tax rate.  
a) It will increase to $5 in Year 1 and decrease back to $0 in Year 5.  
b) It will increase to $5 in Year 1, increase to $10 after that, and then decrease back to $0 
in Year 5.  
c) It will not change at all because only Excess Tax Benefits affect the DTA.  
d) It will increase to $5 in Year and then decrease to ($5) in Year 5.  
Explanation:  The first answer choice is correct. The DTA under U.S. GAAP reflects only the lack 
of Cash -Tax Deductibility for the *initial* grant of SBC, and it decreases when that SB C finally 
becomes deductible for Cash -Tax purposes upon exercise or receipt of the shares. Therefore, 
the DTA increases by $20 * 25% = $5 in Year and decreases by $5, moving back to $0, in Year 5 
in this example. The fact that the SBC’s value has doubled d oes not matter because the Excess 
Tax Benefits from this increase are recorded directly on the Income Statement and do not 
affect the DTA on the Balance Sheet.  
 
AFM -03-13: Equity and Debt Investment Types and Unrealized Gains and Losses  (Trading or 
FVPL, AFS or FVOCI, and HTM or Amortized Cost)  (17:20 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll learn how companies record different types of Equity and Debt securities 
on their financial statements, and how the treatment for Unrealized Gains and Losses differs  
based on the security type.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:47: Overview  
• 7:08:  Trading or FVPL Securities  
• 9:22:  AFS or FVOCI Securities  
• 11:02:  HTM or Amortized Cost Securities  
 
12 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 15:37:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:21 You record a $20 Unrealized Gain on equity securities on the Income Statement. Why 
does the Deferred Tax Asset decrease?  
a) Because you do not actually pay additional Cash Taxes on this Unrealized Gain.  
b) Because you will owe Cash Taxes only when these equity securities are actually sold.  
c) Because  Cash Taxes are less than Book Taxes in this period.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. Companies do not pay Cash Taxes on Unrealized Gains or 
save them on Unrealized Losses; they simply change the Deferred Tax Asset such that the actual 
tax savings happen in some future period when the company finally sells the securities. When 
there’s an Unrealized Gain, Cash Taxes will be less than Book Taxes because the Gain is not 
taxable, which reduces the DTA. It’s the opposite with an Unreal ized Loss (Cash Taxes exceed 
Book Taxes, which increases the DTA), to represent that the real tax savings will come in a 
future period.  
 
AFM -03-14: Inventory Costs: LIFO vs. FIFO vs. Moving Average Weighted Cost  (12:54 ) 
You’ll learn how the LIFO, FIFO, and  Weighted Average methods for recording Inventory and 
COGS differ in this lesson, and you’ll understand the trade -offs between them and why IFRS 
does not allow LIFO.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:38:  LIFO vs. FIFO  
• 3:28:  Excel Demonstration  
• 8:58:  Trade -Offs of These  Methods  
• 11:37:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
11:37 When would expect the FIFO method for Inventory and COGS to produce a *higher* 
COGS figure than the LIFO method?  
a) When Inventory costs have been rising.  
b) When Inventory costs have been falling.  
 
13 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
c) When Inventory costs have stayed about the same.  
d) When Inventory costs have fluctuated up and down.  
Explanation:  When Inventory costs have been falling, the most recent Inventory purchased will 
be less expensive than earlier Inventory purchased. LIFO uses t he most recent Inventory, while 
FIFO uses the oldest Inventory for the costs. Therefore, under FIFO, the COGS shown on the 
Income Statement will be higher, and under LIFO, the COGS on the Income Statement will be 
lower. The last two answers do not make sen se because you cannot predict anything about 
COGS under each method in these cases.  
 
AFM -03-15: Pension Accounting, Part 1: Assets, Liabilities, Income Statement, and Cash Flow 
Statement (U.S. GAAP) (22:06 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll learn the fundamentals of pension accounting, including how Pension 
Assets and Liabilities for defined -benefit plans change, and how the components of the Income 
Statement and Cash Flow Statement pension line items are created.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:32:  What Are Pens ions?  
• 2:54:  Defined -Contribution Pension Plans  
• 4:11:  Defined -Benefit Plans  
• 6:03:  Pension Assets  
• 8:45:  Pension Liabilities  
• 10:41:  Service Cost and Interest Cost  
• 14:18:  Income Statement  
• 18:18:  Cash Flow Statement  
• 20:04:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
14:17 Which of the following CORRECTLY describes the Pension Service Cost and the Pension 
Interest Cost?  
a) Both are non -cash, non -operational expenses.  
b) Both are non -cash, but the Service Cost is operational, while the Interest Cost is not.  
c) The Service Cost is a cash, operational expense, while the Interest Cost is non -cash and 
non-operational.  
d) Both are cash, non -operational expense.  
 
14 of 14  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is correct. Both the Service Cost and Interest Cost are 
non-cash because the y just represent the passage of time or the accrual of future payouts – but 
no cash payments in the current period. However, the Service Cost is considered operational 
since it relates to running the plan for employees, while the Interest Cost is considere d financial 
since it’s related to the Present Value of future payouts changing.  
 
AFM -03-16: Pension Accounting, Part 2: Links on the Three Statements and IFRS Treatment  
(16:26 ) 
You’ll learn how to link pension -related items in a full 3 -statement model in t his lesson, 
including key simplifications, and you’ll understand how the accounting treatment of defined -
benefit pension plans differs under IFRS.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:48:  Pension Links on the Financial Statements  
• 8:57:  IFRS Pension Accounting  
• 14:04:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
14:0 4 Which of the following is NOT a major difference in pension accounting under IFRS vs. 
U.S. GAAP?  
a) Under U.S. GAAP, the difference between Expected and Actual Returns is amortized on 
the IS; that does not happen under  IFRS.  
b) The Expected Return on Plan Assets is not an IS line item under IFRS.  
c) Service Costs and Interest Costs may be put in different categories on the IS.  
d) The tax deductibility of the IS Pension Expense vs. Employer Contributions may differ.  
Explanation:  The second answer is the correct choice because the Expected Return on Plan 
Assets *is* still an Income Statement line item under IFRS. It’s just that the difference between 
Expected and Actual Returns is not amortized on the IS, unlike U.S. GAAP. Instead,  the 
difference each year is recorded directly within AOCI in CSE. The last two answer choices are 
incorrect because they represent *actual differences* between U.S. GAAP and IFRS in the 
treatment of pensions.  