 
1 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Advanced Financial Modeling, Module 5: Valuation Interpretation, Real -Life Usage, and 
Supplemental Methodologies  
In this module, you’ll use the Jazz Pharmaceuticals valuation to draft a short stock pitch, an 
equity research report, and an investment banking pitch book, and you’ll learn how the output, 
presentation, and purpose of each one differs.  
The last few lessons in this module cover supplemental valuation methodologies, such as the Levered DCF, the Dividend Discount Model (DDM), the Future Share Price Analysis, the 
Liquidation Valuation, NOL Valuation, and variations of Sum of the Parts (SOTP)  Analysis.  
 
AFM -05-01: Stock Pitch Guidelines and Outline  (16:06)  
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to do the outside research required to outline a stock pitch, and 
you’ll see how you can make a few simple tweaks to an existing Excel model to quantify the impact of catalysts, risk factors, and parts of the investment the sis. 
Table of Contents:  
• 1:42:  Research and Data Sources  
• 4:18:  Recommendation  
• 7:40:  Investment Thesis  
• 10:56:  Catalysts  
• 12:33:  Risk Factors  
• 15:10:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
10:5 6 What’s the best way to quantify the impact of catalysts or risk factors on a company’s 
implied share price in a stock pitch?  
a) Change the assumptions in the model, pasting numbers from one case to another if 
necessary.  
b) Assume an even split among these factors based on the amount by which the company 
is undervalued or overvalued.  
c) Set up an alternate model where you tweak the assumptions to reflect these factors.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The first answer choice is correct. The only way you can quantify catalysts and risk 
factors is to modify your existing valuation to support them; assuming an arbitrary split makes no sense, and neither does building an alternate model (a lot of work for almost no gain).  
 
2 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
AFM -05-02: 3-Page Stock Pitch and Slide Version  (9:16 ) 
You’ll understand how to set up and write both Word and PowerPoint versions of our short 
stock pitch in this lesson, including how you can use visual elements to make a stronger 
argument for the company’s valuation.  
Table of Contents:  
• 2:10:  Company Background  
• 3:38:  Investment Thesis  
• 4:27:  Catalysts  
• 5:40:  Forecasts & Valuation  
• 7:46:  Risk Factors  
• 8:12:  Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 AFM -05-03: Critique of This Stock Pitch  (11:55)  
You’ll learn what this stock pitch did well and what could use improvement in this lesson –  and 
you’ll learn how you might improve upon it with additional time and resources.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:49:  Part 1: What This Stock Pitch Did Right  
• 4:36:  Part 2: Areas for Improvement  
• 9:13:  Part 3: How You Might Fix This Pitch with More Time  
• 10:47:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:12 Why are catalysts and timing less important for “Long” pitches than they are for “Short” 
pitches?  
a) Because an undervalued company’s stock price is more likely to rise over time; 
overvalued companies often need specific events to fall.  
b) If you get the timing wrong with a “Short” pitch, your potential losses are unlimited.  
 
3 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
c) Because the market generally rises, and most stocks follow the ma rket – specific events 
are usually needed for a stock to fall dramatically.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. Timing and catalysts are even more important for 
“Short” stock pitches because companies can stay overpriced for a long time until a specific 
event makes the rest of the market take notice – and the stock could easily keep increa sing, 
making your losses worse, until that happens. All else being equal, many stocks simply tend to rise as the entire market rises, so it’s always riskier to short a stock, and you need to use the 
proper timing and hedges.  
 
AFM -05-04: Equity Research Report  (10:22 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll learn how an equity research report differs from a hedge fund stock pitch, 
and you’ll understand how the presentation and arguments differ, even if the underlying model and analysis do not.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:26:  Part 1: The 4 Main Differences in Research Reports  
• 6:22:  Part 2: From Stock Pitch to Research Report  
• 9:28:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:27 How is an equity research report different from a stock pitch?  
a) The investment thesis, catalysts, and risk factors are “looser.”  
b) The numbers and valuation tend to be closer to mainstream views of the company.  
c) Analysts often provide “target prices” instead of focusing on valuation ranges or probability -based distributions.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. These points all represent the main differences between 
stock pitches –  which tend to express very strong, outside -the-mainstream views – and equity 
research reports –  which also express opinions  but tend to be closer to mainstream thinking for 
most companies.  
 
AFM -05-05: Investment Banking Pitch Book  (11:10)  
 
4 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This lesson will show you how to modify the valuation and use it in an investment banking -style 
pitch book that recommends a sale of the company and proposes a process and potential 
buyers.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:04:  Intro and Pitch Book Rationale  
• 1:59:  Summary and History  
• 3:52:  Forecasts and Valuation  
• 8:06:  Partners and Deal Process  
• 10:29:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
10:29 In an investment banking pitch book, why might you change the company’s estimated 
value slightly over the course of the presentation?  
a) You might do this if the valuation methodologies contradict each other.  
b) You might do this if the company’s share price has changed dramatically in the past few 
weeks.  
c) You might do this to “set expectations low” initially and then work up to higher ones if 
you’re presenting a sale of the company.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The third answer choice is the best one. Often, bankers hint at an idea early in the 
presentation before making a more aggressive case for it by the end; this often happens when 
different assumptions or cases make a big difference in the company’s valuatio n. The first 
answer is not ideal because contradictory outputs from the methodologies could be presented 
as a range of values from the start. The second answer also doesn’t make much sense because valuations should be based on the company’s share price *today* or *as of the valuation date*; 
a big recent change in the share price does not affect the company’s intrinsic value unless its 
forecast has changed significantly.  
 
AFM -05-06: Supplemental Valuation Methodologies Overview and Levered DCF [OPTIONAL] 
(25:16) 
In this optional lesson, you’ll get an overview of the supplemental valuation methodologies and 
learn how a Levered DCF differs from the standard Unlevered DCF.  
Table of Contents:  
 
5 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 1:28 : Supplemental Methodologies  
• 3:00: Levered DCF –  Key Differences  
• 7:55 : Levered Free Cash Flow  Projections  
• 14:03: Debt and Interest Projections  
• 15:20: Discount Rate and Terminal Value Differences  
• 19:12: Problems with the Levered DCF  
• 24:09: Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
15:19 Which of the following is NOT an expected difference in the FCF projections of a 
Levered DCF?  
a) FCF includes Debt issuances and mandatory repayment s. 
b) FCF deducts the Net Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends.  
c) Cash Taxes differ due to the added deductions and the usage and accrual of NOLs.  
d) FCF tends to grow more consistently over time because all the additional line items 
tend to offset each other.  
Explanation:  The last answer choice is correct, i.e., it is NOT an expected difference in a Levered 
DCF. The FCF numbers are more inconsistent and tend to jump up and down significantly because of the Debt repayments and issuances, which rarely happen in a predictable way. This 
is one of the main drawbacks of the analysis. The first three answer choices are correct and are 
all expected differences in this analysis.  
 
AFM -05-07: Dividend Discount Model (DDM)  [OPTIONAL] ( 22:48 ) 
This lesson will demonstrate how to set up a Dividend Discount Model (DDM) in Excel for Steel 
Dynamics and why it may be more sensible than a Levered DCF, even though it still takes more work, time, and judgment than an Unlevered DCF and doesn’t necessarily produce more useful 
results.  
Table of Contents:  
• 2:22:  Part 1: Why Build a Dividend Discount Model?  
• 5:40:  Part 2: Excel Changes –  Dividend Drivers  
• 9:04:  Part 3: Excel Changes –  The Change in Cash  
• 12:22:  Part 4: Excel Changes –  Terminal Value and Sensitivities  
• 15:17:  Part 5: Sanity -Checking the DDM  
• 18:00:  Part 6: Why Does the DDM Produce Different Output?  
 
6 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 20:26:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
20:25 Why does the Dividend Discount Model often produce lower implied values for normal 
companies than the traditional Unlevered DCF?  
a) The Discount Rate in the DDM, Cost of Equity, is higher than the WACC number used in the Unlevered DCF.  
b) The “cash flows” in the DDM (the Dividends) are almost always lower than the Unlevered Free Cash Flows in a DCF.  
c) The Terminal Value in a DDM is not necessarily higher than the Terminal Value in a DCF; it’s often lower for real companies.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. These all represent reasons why the DDM tends to 
produce more conservative valuations for “normal,” non -financial companies such as ones in 
the industrial, retail, telecom, utilities, and other sectors.  
 
AFM -05-08: Present Value of Future Share Price Analysis  [OPTIONAL] ( 23:58)  
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to set up a “Future Share Price Analysis,” where you value a 
company based on the Present Value of its expected Dividends over time and its projected 
share price on a future date –  and you’ll learn the advantages and disadv antages of this 
methodology.  
Table of Contents:  
• 2:28:  Future Share Price Rationale  
• 6:04:  Excel Walk -Through  
• 10:15 Future Value of Share Price Calculations  
• 13:50:  Present Value of Future Share Prices  
• 16:13:  Line Chart Data  
• 19:35:  Problems with This Analysis  
• 22:18:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
 
7 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
19:34 Which of the following is NOT a required step in the Present Value of Future Share Price 
Analysis?  
a) You must forecast the company’s Stock Repurchases and take their Present Value, 
similar to Dividends.  
b) You must forecast the company’s Dividends, take their Present Value, and add it to the PV of its future share price.  
c) You must forecast the company’s future share price using a multiple such as P / E or TEV / EBITDA.  
d) You must use Cost of Equity for the Discount Rate.  
Explanation:  The first answer choice is correct, i.e., it is NOT required. You don’t need to take 
the Present Value of Stock Repurchases as long as you reflect the shrinking share count in future periods when calculating the company’s stock price in those periods. Ever ything else is a 
required part of this analysis (and you cannot use WACC rather than Cost of Equity because you’re always calculating the SHARE PRICE in the future –  even if you start the calculation with 
an Enterprise Value -based multiple).  
 
AFM -05-09: Liquidation Valuation  [OPTIONAL] ( 19:40)  
You’ll learn how to set up the Liquidation Valuation in this lesson, see when it’s most useful, 
and get a few real examples from banks that advised companies on restructuring and 
bankruptcy processes.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:57:  Rationale and Examples from Banks  
• 5:53:  Excel Walk -Through  
• 14:20:  When the Liquidation Valuation is Useful  
• 17:27:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
17:26 Why is a Liquidation Valuation not especially useful for healthy companies?  
a) It’s very difficult to determine the fair market value of PP&E in this case.  
b) The analysis is likely to produce values that are far below the standard methodologies.  
c) It’s unlikely that any lenders would lose money if a healthy company had to sell itself.  
d) All of the above.  
 
8 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Explanation:  Everything above is true.  These all represent reasons why this analysis is rarely 
used for healthy, operational companies. Determining the fair market value of PP&E requires a 
DCF in this case because the company is not just going to shut down and sell everything, so you might as well build a DCF for the entire company. And if you do assume a full shut -down and 
sale of all assets, the analysis will produce very low values that are far below any other 
methodology. However, even with these low va lues, the lenders would be unlikely to lose 
money unless the company had an incredibly high amount of Debt.  
 
AFM -05-10: Net Operating Loss (NOL) Valuation: How to Do It and What It Means  [OPTIONAL] 
(24:26)  
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to value a company’s Net Operating Losses (NOLs) in both a 
standalone and M&A context, and you’ll learn when this methodology is significant and when it can be ignored.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:59:  Part 1: Standalone NOL Valuation  
• 12:34:  Part 2: NOL Valuation in M&A Deals  
• 19:33:  Part 3: When/Why NOL Valuation Matter s 
• 22:41:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
12:33 Which of the following could make an NOL worth significantly less than its on -Balance 
Sheet value within the DTA?  
a) An expiration date shortly after the company’s Pre -Tax Income has finally turned 
positive.  
b) A company whose Pre -Tax Income keeps fluctuating between slightly negative and 
positive over a long period.  
c) Both of the above.  
Explanation:  Both answer choices are true. A company’s NOLs are valuable only to the extent 
that it can use those NOLs to reduce its Cash Taxes. If the NOLs expire soon, the company may 
not be able to use a significant portion to reduce its taxes, and if the company’s Pre -Tax Income 
is never positive enough to utilize the NOLs fully before expiration, the tax benefits of the NOLs 
are also reduced.  
 
 
9 of 9  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
AFM -05-11: Sum of the Parts (SOTP) Valuation: Why It Works and How to Use It  (LG Chem) 
[OPTIONAL] ( 28:03)  
In this final lesson, you’ll learn how the Sum of the Parts (SOTP) Valuation works based on an 
example valuation of LG Chem in South Korea; you’ll also learn its advantages and 
disadvantages and how it compares to the other supplemental methodologies.  
Table of Contents:  
• 2:02:  Part 1: The Main Idea and Examples from Banks  
• 7:57:  Part 2: LG Chem Example and Step -by-Step Process  
• 21:35:  Part 3: Advantages and Disadvantages of SOTP Valuation  
• 22:36:  Part 4: Review of “Optional” Methodologies  
• 26:31:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
21:34 Why do you not necessarily have to adjust for Corporate Overhead Expenses in a Sum 
of the Parts valuation?  
a) It depends on the type of deal you’re pitching or recommending with the SOTP analysis.  
b) The company’s EBIT or EBITDA by segment, added together, might already total the company’s overall EBITDA from its financial statements.  
c) It may not be applicable if it’s a holding company with stakes in other, different companies but no operational control.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. Adjusting for Corporate Overhead Expenses is most 
important when the individual segments’ EBIT, EBITDA, etc. , do not add up to the total number 
for the company because the company has excluded expenses allocated at the corporate level – 
but not all companies set up their financials like this. It’s also more important if you’re pitching a spin -off or divestiture i n which the divisions’ overall expenses could increase afterward due to 
their status as independent companie s. Finally, if you’re valuing an actual holding company 
without real operations, “overhead expenses” are not applicable; however, you may apply a 
holding company (HoldCo) discount in that case.  