 
1 of 7  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Advanced Financial Modeling, Module 8: Majority -Stake Acquisition (Fortum and Uniper)  
In this case study, you’ll build a merger model to analyze Fortum’s acquisition of a 20.5% stake 
in Uniper, bringing the company up from ~49% ownership to ~70% ownership; you’ll assess the 
impact of different percentages acquired and a variable close date and stub period.  
 
AFM-08-01: Majority Stake M&A Case Study Overview  (11:17 ) 
In this introductory lesson, you’ll learn about this case study based on Fortum’s minority stake 
in Uniper and how the company plans to increase it to a majority (~70%) stake; you’ll also get 
the highlights of the 3 -statement projections for both companies . 
Table of Contents:  
• 2:28:  Deal Overview  
• 5:33:  Uniper Projections  
• 8:00:  Fortum Projections  
• 10:21:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
10:21 Which of the following is recorded on a Parent Company’s financial statements when it 
owns a 49% stake in a Subsidiary Company (Sub Co)?  
a) The Parent records 49% * Sub Co’s Net Income at the bottom of its Income Statement.  
b) The Parent reverses 49% * Sub Co’s Net Income on the Cash Flow Statement.  
c) The Parent records 49% * Sub Co’s Dividends on the Cash Flow Statement.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. These three answers explain the standard treatment for 
the simple presentation of Equity Investments on the financial statements: Sub Co’s Net Income 
makes no net cash flow impact, but the Parent Company receives its percentage ownership in Sub Co * Sub Co’s Dividends  in cash.  
 
AFM -08-02: Acquirer – Rollforward Projections and Stub Periods  (17:01)  
You’ll learn how to create financial statements for the Acquirer that “roll forward” to the 
transaction close date as well as a stub period between the transaction close date and the end 
of the year in this lesson.  
Table of Contents:  
 
2 of 7  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 1:03:  Close Date and Stub Period Assumptions  
• 3:42:  Income Statement Stub Periods  
• 7:26:  Cash Flow Statement Stub Periods  
• 8:55:  Balance Sheet Stub Periods  
• 14:58:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
14:57 If you’re creating stub period / rollforward financial projections for use in a merger 
model with an irregular close date, when is it NOT appropriate to use simple fractions?  
a) When the company’s dividends or equity/debt financing vary significantly in different 
periods.  
b) When the company is planning to divest major assets on a specific date.  
c) When the business is highly seasonal , and you have monthly/quarterly data.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. These all represent reasons why you might want to use 
something more complex than simple fractions to create stub periods for use in a merger model with an irregular close date. Whenever the company’s months or quarters vary 
signi ficantly, it’s best to use historical trends in those months and quarters to inform your 
numbers.  
 
AFM -08-03: Target  – Rollforward Projections and Stub Periods ( 10:32 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to create stub periods for the Target (Uniper) that represent the 
pre and post- transaction periods on the financial statements.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:42:  Income Statement Stub Periods  
• 2:51:  Cash Flow Statement Stub Periods  
• 3:57:  Balance Sheet Stub Periods  
• 9:11:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
 
3 of 7  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
AFM -08-04: Merger Model Assumptions for Majority Stake Deal  (15:51)  
You’ll learn how to set up the transaction assumptions, Sources & Uses schedule, and Purchase 
Price Allocation schedule for a deal in which the Acquirer goes from a minority stake to a 
majority stake in the Target in this lesson.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:41:  Merger Model Assumptions  
• 10:27:  Sources & Uses  
• 11:53:  Purchase Price Allocation  
• 14:04:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
10:26 In an M&A deal where the Acquirer goes from a 40% stake to a 75% stake in the Target, 
how should you determine the Target’s Yield?  
a) Use 35% of the Target’s Equity Purchase Price and 35% of its projected Net Income.  
b) Use 100% of the Target’s Equity Purchase Price and 75% of its projected Net Income.  
c) Use 75% of the Target’s Equity Purchase Price and 25% of its projected Net Income.  
d) It doesn’t matter as long as you’re consistent with the percentages.  
Explanation:  The last answer is correct. You can use 40%, 35%, 75%, or 100% as long as you use 
the *same percentage for both Net Income and the Equity Purchase Price.* You cannot mix and 
match percentages , or you will get inconsistent results for the Target’s Yield.  
 
AFM -08-05: Balance Sheet Adjustments for Majority Stake  (11:35)  
In this lesson, you’ll make the Balance Sheet adjustments required to combine Fortum and 
Uniper’s statements on the mid- year transaction close date and turn Uniper from an Equity 
Investment into a Noncontrolling Interest.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:37:  Linking in the Historical Balance Sheets  
• 2:39:  Changes to the Assets Side  
• 5:16:  Changes to the L&E Side  
• 10:05:  Recap and Summary  
 
 
4 of 7  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Quiz Questions:  
10:04 Why do we need to make a special adjustment in Common Shareholders’ Equity when 
Fortum moves from a 49.99% stake to a 70.5% stake in Uniper?  
a) Because the Equity Investment written down will not equal the Noncontrolling Interest 
created.  
b) Because Uniper’s market value for 49.99% of the company is different from the Equity 
Investment s line item for Uniper.  
c) Because the Cash, Debt, and Stock used to acquire this additional ~20.5% stake do not 
equal the Noncontrolling Interest created.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The second answer is correct. Just writing down an Equity Investment and creating 
a Noncontrolling Interest will not require a special adjustment because the Target’s CSE is also 
written down, new Goodwill is created, and the Acquirer’s Cash, Debt, and Sto ck all change as 
well. The real problem is that the *market value* used to create this new NCI is likely to be quite different from the market value of the Equity Investment that is written down in the deal, and that makes the Balance Sheet go  out of balance. The last answer makes no sense because 
the deal funding for a smaller additional stake will never equal the new NCI created since the 
NCI represents the portion of the Target the Acquirer does *not* own.  
 
AFM -08-06: Combined Income Statement Projections  (22:27)  
You’ll learn how to combine the Income Statements of the Acquirer and Target in the projected 
period, including the stub period, in this lesson, and you’ll modify the acquisition effect formulas to account for the stub period in the beginning.  
NOTE TO LESSON:  There are small issues with the formulas for the merger & integration costs 
and amortization of debt issuance fees here at the 9:39 –  10:12 and 12:47 –  14:50 segments. 
We fix these problems and make the formulas more robust in the final lesson of this mod ule. 
Table of Contents:  
• 1:13 : Part 1: Historical Links  
• 2:47:  Part 2: Combined Period  
• 6:47:  Part 3: Acquisition Effects  
• 18:24:  Part 4: Accretion/Dilution  
• 20:35:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
 
5 of 7  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
18:23 In the full merger model for a majority -stake acquisition with a stub period, why do we 
need different formulas in the combined stub period vs. combined full years for items like the 
D&A on asset write -ups?  
a) We might need to multiply by the stub period fraction in some cases.  
b) In the stub period, we can assume that items do not depreciate or amortize completely; we have to check for this in the full years.  
c) In some cases, a new line item might not exist at all in the combined stub period.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. These are the main reasons why the formulas differ for 
the stub periods vs. the full years: we need to adjust down some annualized line items to get 
fractions, items might only amortize or depreciate fully in the whole years, and certain items, 
such as the synergies, may not exist at all in the combined stub period before the first full year as a combined entity.  
 
AFM -08-07: Combined Cash Flow Statement Projections  (17:38)  
In this lesson, you’ll combine the Cash Flow Statements of Fortum and Uniper and adjust the 
line items that change in the transaction.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:55:  Cash Flow from Operations  
• 7:11:  Cash Flow from Investing  
• 7:42:  Cash Flow from Financing  
• 15:57:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
7:10 When a company moves from minority to majority ownership in another company, why 
is the formula for the Dividends Received from Other Company on the Cash Flow Statement still Other Company’s Dividends * % Owned?  
a) Because the parent company always receives Dividends based on its ownership 
percentage; majority vs. minority stakes do not matter. 
b) This is incorrect; it should be (1 – % Owned) after the parent moves to majority 
ownership.  
c) Because these Dividends are subtracted when it’s a majority stake  but added when it’s a 
minority stake.  
 
6 of 7  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Explanation:  The first answer is correct because it describes the exact princip le here. The 
second answer is wrong because the Dividends formula is always based on the percentage 
ownership in other entities. And the last answer is wrong because the Dividends Received are positive line items on the Cash Flow Statement in both cases; the  only difference is that they 
link into different items on the Balance Sheet based on the majority vs. minority stake 
distinction.  
 
AFM -08-08: Combined Balance Sheet Projections  (15:30)  
You’ll combine the projected Balance Sheets in the merger model in this lesson, and you’ll do 
some testing and review of the model at the end to check the accretion/dilution and look for 
smaller problems in the formulas.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:23:  Assets Side  
• 5:26:  L&E Side  
• 9:57:  Testing and Review  
• 14:11:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 AFM -08-09: Model Fixes, Metrics, Sensitivity Tables and Case Study Answers  (18:33)  
In this final lesson, you’ll make a few fixes to the merger model, set up sensitivity tables, and 
use the output and tables to answer the case study questions about the accretion/dilution, 
ideal close date, and optimal percentage to acquire.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:08:  Fixes to the Model  
• 4:24:  Metrics and Ratios  
• 6:28:  Sensitivities  
• 13:00:  Case Study Answers  
• 17:46:  Recap and Summary  
 
 
7 of 7  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Quiz Questions:  
13:00 Why does the Fortum  / Uniper deal become less dilutive as the stake acquired 
increases from ~20% to ~30 -35%, but then become more dilutive after that?  
a) Because regardless of the percentage acquired, Fortum still consolidates 100% of 
Uniper’s financial statements.  
b) Because the New Interest Expense and Foregone Interest on Cash keep increasing as the 
stake acquired increases.  
c) Because at higher percentages acquired, Fortum must issue more Stock to finance the 
deal.  
d) Because at higher percentages acquired, the Net Income Attributable to the Uniper Noncontrolling Interest is less negative.  
e) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true because all these points, together, explain this behavior. 
The basic trade -off here is that only the Share Count, New Interest Expense, Foregone Interest 
on Cash, and Net Income Attributable to the Uniper NCI change as the percentage acquired 
changes. Higher percentages acquired increase the first three, i.e., they add to the dilution, but 
they also make the Net Income to the Uniper NCI *less negat ive* because a smaller portion of it 
is subtracted.  
So, there is a “U -shaped curve” similar to the one for WACC, where increasing percentages 
acquired make the deal less dilutive at first but eventually make it more dilutive.  