 
1 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Advanced Financial Modeling, Module 7: Spinoff Case Study (SunPower and Maxeon)  
In this case study, you’ll analyze SunPower’s spin -off of Maxeon and create “separated” 
financial statements, followed by a DCF valuation and Sum -of-the-Parts analysis to determine 
whether the spin -off is a good idea.  
 
AFM -07-01: SunPower / Maxeon Case Overview and Financial Projections ( 12:17)  
In this introductory lesson for Case Study #2, you’ll learn why a company might want to spin off 
a division, and you’ll understand the basic transaction structure and financial statements for 
SunPower’s spin- off of Maxeon.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:47:  Part 1: Transaction Overview  
• 5:49:  Part 2: Maxeon Financial Overview  
• 8:46:  Part 3: SunPower Financial Overview  
• 10:59:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
10:59 What is the MAIN reason why a company with manufacturing and services divisions 
might want to spin off its manufacturing operations?  
a) To realize EPS accretion by selling a less -profitable segment.  
b) To improve its valuation by separating businesses that might trade at different 
multiples.  
c) To attract new investors by changing the market perception of the company.  
d) To clean up its Balance Sheet by removing the Goodwill associated with the 
manufacturing division.  
Explanation:  The second answer is the best choice. Spin -offs are mostly about valuation and 
the divisions attaining higher values as separate entities rather than as parts of the same 
combined company. EPS accretion/dilution and Goodwill are barely relevant, and the third answer is partially true, but it’s not the most complete answer to this questio n. 
 
AFM -07-02: Spin -off Transaction Assumptions ( 14:34)  
 
2 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You’ll learn how to calculate the number of shares issued to form the new Maxeon entity in this 
lesson and how to calculate the new Debt issued and the Cash transfer to its parent company 
SunPower in this lesson.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:12:  Transaction Assumptions  
• 4:42:  Debt Financing Assumptions  
• 9:33:  Cash Assumptions  
• 13:08:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
13:07 In the SunPower / Maxeon spin -off, which of the following conditions is MOST likely to 
trigger a higher cash payment from Maxeon to SunPower in the initial transaction?  
a) Maxeon spends too much and ends up with a lower pre -transaction Cash balance.  
b) TZS decides to increase its investment from $298 million to $500 million.  
c) Maxeon draws on more of its Revolver at close, but it ends up being unnecessary. 
d) Maxeon decides to issue $100 million of Convertible Notes rather than $200 million.  
Explanation:  The third answer choice is correct. The higher Maxeon’s Cash balance, pre -TZS 
investment, the higher the chance of a cash payment to SunPower. The first answer is wrong 
because too much spending means Maxeon would have a lower pre -transaction Cash balance. 
The second answer is wrong because this  Cash transfer option ignores the TZS investment. The 
fourth answer is wrong because less in Convertible Note proceeds means a lower Cash balance. The third answer is correct because drawing on the Revolver too much at deal close means that Maxeon’s Cash b alance is more likely to exceed the $50 million threshold.  
 
AFM -07-03: Spin -off Balance Sheet Adjustments for Parent and Sub Co ( 20:37)  
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to adjust the Balance Sheets of SunPower and Maxeon for the 
spin-off, including full deconsolidation of the subsidiary company, re -classification of line items, 
additional Cash transfers, and required adjustments within Equity.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:05:  SunPower – Balance Sheet Adjustments  
• 10:04:  Maxeon – Balance Sheet Adjustments  
• 18:41:  Recap and Summary  
 
 
3 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Quiz Questions:  
10:03 In a spin -off deal, do you need to make any adjustments to the Parent’s Balance Sheet 
if it goes to 0% ownership of the Sub Co  at deal close  and removes all of Sub Co’s line items, 
but changes nothing else?  
a) No – the Balance Sheet should balance if all of Sub Co’s line items are removed.  
b) Yes – because you still need to record a Gain or Loss on the spin -off, which will affect 
the Balance Sheet.  
c) It depends on the Parent’s ownership of Sub Co before the spin- off. 
Explanation:  The last answer choice is correct. The problem here is that the adjustments look 
different if the Parent owns 100% vs. 50% to 100% vs. less than 50% of the Sub Co before 
spinning it off. If it owns less than 100%, we will also have to remove Equity Investm ent or 
Noncontrolling Interest line items when the deal takes place. But if it owns 100%, as is the case here, those items won’t exist, so no adjustments are needed. The second answer is wrong 
because the Parent does not record Gains or Losses  if the Sub Co is spun into a separate public 
company with a separate share count rather than being sold.  
 
AFM -07-04: Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value and Enterprise Value  (13:29)  
You’ll learn how to calculate the transaction -adjusted Equity Value and Enterprise Value for 
SunPower and Maxeon following the spin -off in this lesson . 
Table of Contents:  
• 0:58:  SunPower Calculations  
• 7:20:  Maxeon Calculations  
• 11:49:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
7:19 When calculating the transaction -adjusted Equity Value for SunPower, why do we 
subtract Maxeon’s Distribution Value rather than its Post -Money Equity Value?  
a) Because the TZS investment does not affect Maxeon’s Equity Value.  
b) Because the TZS investment is not part of SunPower’s Net Assets currently.  
c) Because the Distribution Value better reflects Maxeon’s valuation multiples.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is correct. Since the TZS investment is not currently on 
SunPower’s Balance Sheet, and, therefore, not part of its Net Assets, it cannot possibly 
 
4 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
contribute to SunPower’s Current Equity Value. Therefore, we subtract Maxeon’s Distribution 
Value, before the TZS investment, rather than its post- money Equity Value after the 
investment.  The first answer is wrong because the $298 million TZS investment *does* affect 
Maxeon’s Equity Value – but it’s not part of the current, combined company.  
 
AFM -07-05: SunPower – Adjusted Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement  (25:14)  
In this lesson, you’ll adjust SunPower’s projected Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement 
by deconsolidating Maxeon’s projections and removing the Debt and Equity funding that were formerly used to fund Maxeon’s CapEx.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:37:  Adjusted Income Statement  
• 9:45:  Adjusted Cash Flow Statement  
• 18:57:  EPS Accretion / Dilution  
• 23:33:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
23:32 Why is EPS accretion/dilution NOT that meaningful a metric in a tax -free spin -off deal?  
a) Because the Gain or Loss recorded by the Parent Company will distort the EPS numbers.  
b) Because the spun -off company did not have a separate EPS number before the deal 
closed.  
c) Because spin -offs are usually motivated by valuation concerns, not EPS changes. 
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The third answer choice is correct: companies execute spin -offs when they think 
that the companies as separate entities will be worth more than the current combined entity, 
so EPS changes are not particularly meaningful. The first answer is wrong because G ains and 
Losses are not recorded in tax -free spin- offs based on distribution ratios. The second answer is 
a true statement, but it doesn’t explain *why* changes in the Parent’s EPS are not that useful 
or meaningful in a spin- off. 
 
AFM -07-06: Maxeon – Adjusted Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement ( 13:36)  
You’ll learn how to adjust Maxeon’s statements for the acquisition effects, reallocated 
expenses, and loss of funding from the Parent Company in this lesson.  
 
5 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:36:  Adjusted Income Statement  
• 6:15:  Adjusted Cash Flow Statement  
• 11:55:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
AFM -07-07: Maxeon – Debt & Equity Schedule ( 17:43)  
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to set up a Debt & Equity Schedule to determine Maxeon’s 
funding requirements as a standalone entity following the close of the spin- off. 
LESSON  NOTE:  Under U.S. GAAP, Convertible Bonds are rarely split into Debt and Equity 
components anymore. At the time of this deal, this treatment was still common, but it changed 
shortly thereafter. The split into separate Debt and Equity components is still common under 
IFRS.   
Table of Contents:  
• 2:06:  Calculating the Required Funding  
• 7:28:  Revolver Interest  
• 8:44:  Convertible Interest and Amortization  
• 11:23:  Linking the Statements  
• 15:25:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
11:23 What’s the best way to simplify a Debt & Equity schedule under time pressure?  
a) Assume straight -line amortization of the issuance fees.  
b) Use straight -line amortization for any convertible bond discount.  
c) If the maturity date of a Debt tranche is after the last projected year, ignore it.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  All of these methods represent valid ways to simplify this schedule if you’re under 
time pressure or otherwise do not have the time and resources to fill in every detail. 
Technically, the amortization of issuance fees and the convertible bond discount should change 
 
6 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
when there are early repayments or maturities, or if there are additional issuances, but you can 
ignore those points in a simplified model. You should also check for the maturity date, but, 
again, you can ignore this to save time if the maturity date is far in the future.  
 
AFM -07-08: Post -Spinoff Tax Schedules ( 11:50 ) 
You’ll build new Tax Schedules that include non-deductible expenses and the creation and 
usage of NOLs in this lesson, and you’ll see how the existing schedules for Maxeon and 
SunPower change after this deal closes.  
NOTE TO LESSON:  From 2:14 to 2:22, we link to the incorrect column . We fix this later, in the 
7:05 – 7:24 segment.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:55:  Maxeon Schedule  
• 6:04:  SunPower Schedule  
• 10:09:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 AFM -07-09: Post -Spinoff Balance Sheet Projections ( 14:52)  
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to link each company’s adjusted, post -spinoff Cash Flow 
Statement to the Balance Sheet projections to finish each company’s separate 3 -statement 
model.  
Table of Contents:  
• 2:30:  SunPower Balance Sheet Projections  
• 9:07:  Maxeon Balance Sheet Projections  
• 13:31:  Recap and Summary  
 Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
 
7 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
AFM -07-10: Public Comps and WACC for SunPower and Maxeon (15:57)  
You’ll review the sets of comparable companies and the WACC calculations for both companies 
as separate entities in this lesson, and you’ll draw some quick conclusions about their valuation multiples and risk/return profiles.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:15:  SunPower – Public Comps  
• 5:20:  SunPower – WACC 
• 7:41:  Maxeon – Public Comps  
• 12:19:  Maxeon – WACC 
• 14:25:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
7:40 What is the BIGGEST problem with the set of comparable companies for SunPower as a 
standalone entity?  
a) They are all based in emerging markets rather than the U.S.  
b) The two companies in the set are not pure -play solar installation and services 
companies.  
c) Two companies in the set may not be enough for the data to be meaningful.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The third answer choice is correct. Both Sunrun and Vivint Solar are based in the 
U.S., so the first answer is wrong, and they are both pure -play installation/services companies, 
so the second answer is also wrong. The main issue is that it’s difficult to justify your conclusions about valuation multiples when the set has only two companies in it, and the two companies later merged. There is some evidence that SunPower may be undervalued, but the 
evidence is not that strong because the set of data is so sma ll. 
 
AFM -07-11: SunPower – 15-Year Unlevered DCF with Net Operating Losses (NOLs)  (27:46)  
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to link the SunPower 3 -statement model into a 15 -year DCF for 
the company, including the impact of the spin- off as well as its substantial NOL balance, and 
you’ll draw some quick conclusions about its valuation.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:02:  Unlevered FCF Projections  
• 13:43:  Terminal Value and Implied TEV  
 
8 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 22:41:  Sensitivity Tables  
• 26:26:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
13:42 If a company has a significant NOL balance, why can you not link in the Deferred 
Income Taxes from its 3 -statement projection model into an Unlevered DCF for the company?  
a) Because the DCF is capital structure -neutral, but the 3 -statement model is not.  
b) Because the DCF projection period might go beyond the end of the 3 -statement period.  
c) Becau se there might be an NOL balance remaining at the end of the DCF forecast 
period.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. While you can link in most parts of the 3 -statement 
model to build an Unlevered DCF, the NOLs and Deferred Taxes are problematic for companies 
with large balances –  because they might persist for many years . So, if you choose to account 
for the NOLs directly in the UFCF projections, then you cannot link them directly from the 3 -
statement model. Instead, you need to create a separate forecast for their usage in a capital structure -neutral context and extend the projections to the en d of the forecast period.  
 
AFM -07-12: Maxeon – 15-Year Unlevered DCF with Net Operating Losses (NOLs)  (23:07)  
You’ll learn how to modify the SunPower DCF and use it to value Maxeon in this lesson, 
including some differences in the growth rates, margins, NOLs, and overall valuation results.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:25:  Unlevered FCF Projections  
• 12:21:  Terminal Value and Implied TEV  
• 18:20:  Sensitivity Tables  
• 21:11:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 AFM -07-13: Sum of the Parts (SOTP) Valuation ( 13:28)  
 
9 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In this lesson, you’ll use the DCF and comparable companies for SunPower and Maxeon to 
complete the Sum of the Parts valuation . 
Table of Contents:  
• 1:02:  Step 1: Link in the Implied TEVs  
• 5:38:  Step 2: Calculate the "Combined" Numbers  
• 9:10:  Step 3: Estimate TOTAL SE's Stake  
• 12:03:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
12:02 In a Sum of the Parts valuation, why might you adjust for corporate overhead when 
adding together each division’s value?  
a) When either division will have to spend significantly more on overhead rather than 
relying on the parent company’s shared resources. 
b) When the SOTP valuation is used to analyze an actual spin -off rather than a combined 
company in parts.  
c) When the SOTP valuation shows a big discrepancy vs. the company’s current market value.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The first answer choice is correct. The corporate overhead adjustment is required 
in any SOTP valuation where the divisions’ financial statements have not already been adjusted 
for these added expenses –  because as a separate entity, the smaller entity will have extra 
expenses now that it can no longer use the parent’s resources.  It doesn’t matter whether the 
analysis is used in an actual spin -off or as part of a potential spin -off, or how much of a value 
discrepancy there is.  
 
AFM-07-14: Case Study Answers , Presentation , and Deal Post -Mortem  (10:55)  
In this final lesson, you’ll learn how to answer the case study questions, get a full slide 
presentation version of the answers, and learn why this deal performed poorly in real life in the 
following years.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:23:  Executive Summary  
• 3:53:  Financing Analysis  
• 5:18:  Valuation Analysis  
 
10 of 10  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 8:27:  Risk Factors  
• 9:08:  Summary  
• 9:30:  Deal Post -Mortem  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:30 Which of the following is a sign that the valuation estimates for two companies 
following a spinoff might not be reliable?  
a) The long -term margins in the DCFs rise to a level significantly above those of the public 
comps.  
b) The companies’ long -term annualized growth rates far exceed the industry’s growth.  
c) One company has very few comparable public companies or the multiples span a huge 
range.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. If the spun -off companies’ long -term growth rates or 
margins far exceed the numbers for the public comps or the entire industry, it is usually a sign 
that the valuation is too aggressive (there may be exceptions in certain cases if the company has a specific, durable competitive advantage). Sparse data for the public comps or a very high 
standard deviation for the public comps’ multiples are also signs that the post- spinoff 
valuations may not be realistic or reliable.  