 
1 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Advanced Financial Modeling, Module 9: Advanced LBO Model (KKR / Viridor)  
In this module, you’ll complete a 4-hour case study based on KKR’s leveraged buyout of Viridor, 
a waste management company in the U.K. It is based on a full 3-statement model and includes 
more advanced features, such as stub periods, a dividend recap, a Working Capital target, 
Revolver Fees, OID, and IRR and recovery analyses for lenders.  
There are also full investment recommendation presentations for both the  equity investors and 
the lenders at the end.  
 
AFM -09-01: Advanced LBO Model – Overview and Data Gathering  (14:39 ) 
In this first lesson, you’ll get an introduction to the KKR / Viridor case study, and you’ll learn 
about the deal parameters and where to fin d the required data.  
Table of Contents:  
• 2:01 : Deal Overview  
• 7:16: Data Gathering  
• 13:35 : Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
13:35 Why is it very difficult to find the proper data for an LBO of a divested company?  
a) The parent company might not disclose full, historical financials.  
b) It may not be clear how to split revenue and expenses between the Parent and Sub Co. 
c) Automated sources such as Capital IQ or FactSet might also be rough estimates.  
d) All of the above.  
Explana tion:  Everything above is true. These all represent reasons why it’s often difficult to find 
data for divestitures unless the parent company explicitly discloses all the information in its 
filings.  
 
AFM -09-02: Viridor – Revenue Projections (10:37)  
You’ll l earn how to project Viridor’s revenue from existing facilities and newer ERF plants across 
different scenarios in this lesson.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:28:  Existing Facilities and ERF Plants  
 
2 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 2:48:  Waste Throughput  
• 6:25:  Pricing Growth  
• 8:47:  Revenue in Different Scenarios  
• 9:51:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
AFM -09-03: Viridor – Expense Assumptions ( 11:16 ) 
You’ll learn how to forecast Viridor’s expense drivers in this lesson, including its employee 
count, employee expenses, raw material costs, and tax rate.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:30:  Historical Expenses  
• 5:36:  Expense Drivers  
• 10:01:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
10:00 If there’s no specific guidance provided for a company’s expenses, what’s the safest 
way to forecast something like employee costs in a financial model?  
a) Make them  a percentage of revenue.  
b) Assume they grow in -line with the employee count and wages that rise in -line with 
inflation.  
c) Set them such that the company’s margins stay in a si milar range in the projected 
period.  
d) Any of the above could work.  
Explanation:  Anything here could work, depending on the numbers and historical trends. These 
are all common  approaches to forecasting expenses so that the company’s margins  stay in a 
similar range. The main drawback is that if the company’s margins are expected to change for 
some reason, these methods will be less effective.  
 
AFM -09-04: Viridor – CapEx, Depreciation, and Leases (12:44 ) 
 
3 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In this lesson, you’ll project both Growth and Maintenance CapEx for Viridor, set up a 
Depreciation schedule based on the construction times and useful lives, and make simple 
assumptions for the leases on the company’s non -ERF facilities.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:55:  Growth CapEx and Depreciatio n 
• 7:23:  Maintenance CapEx and Leases  
• 11:37:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
11:3 7 In a Depreciation schedule in which each asset takes multiple years to build, why can’t 
the Depreciation start in the same year as the initial CapEx spent on the asset?  
a) Depreciation can begin only once an asset is finished and put into use.  
b) It’s not accura te to do this because the CapEx in Year 1 won’t be fully depreciated in this 
case.  
c) This doesn’t make sense because the CapEx is typically incurred on the final day of the 
year.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The first answer is correct. The short, simple a nswer is that a company can start 
depreciating an asset only after the asset is finished and put into use. The second answer is 
factually incorrect since all CapEx related to a new asset will eventually be depreciated, and the 
third answer is not a good ch oice because there are many ways around this issue; for example, 
you could use the mid -year convention and assume that CapEx is incurred, on average, halfway 
through each year, in which case there could be CapEx and Depreciation on the same asset in 
the sa me year.  
 
AFM -09-05: Viridor – Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement Drivers  (10:21 ) 
You will set up the Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement assumptions for Viridor in this 
lesson, including the Minimum Cash and Debt Issuance formulas.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:42 : Historical Percentages  
• 3:41 : Projections  
• 9:18 : Recap and Summary  
 
 
4 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
AFM -09-06: Viridor – Projecting and Linking the Statements  (15:05 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll project and link Viridor’s financial statements over the 6 -year holding 
period, and you’ll see how the Cash balance ends at very different numbers in the different 
scenarios.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:39 : Income Statement  
• 2:58 : Balance Sheet, Part 1  
• 4:29 : Cash Flow Statement  
• 9:32 : Balance Sheet, Part 2  
• 13:54 : Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
AFM -09-07: Transaction Assumptions and Sources & Uses for a Cash -Free, Debt -Free Deal 
with a Working Capital Adjustment  (14:51 ) 
You’ll set up the LBO transaction assumptions in this lesson, including the Purchase Enterprise 
Value and Equity Value, the Sources & Uses schedule, and the adjustments required for a cash -
free/debt -free divestiture deal with a Working Capital adjustment a t deal close.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:56:  Transaction Assumptions  
• 5:51:  Debt, OID, and Issuance Fees  
• 7:56:  Sources & Uses  
• 13:25:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
 
5 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
13:25 Suppose that a company’s Working Capital at deal close is $200 vs. a targeted level of 
$150. How does this change the total amount the *PE firm* pays and the total amount that 
*goes to the shareholders*?  
a) The PE firm pays $50 extra, and the selling shareholders get $50 extra.  
b) The PE firm pays the same amount, and the selling shareholders get $50 less.  
c) The PE firm pays $50 less, and the selling shareholders get $50 more.  
d) The PE firm pays the same amount, and the selling shareholders get $50 more.  
Explanation:  The last answer is correct. When there’s a Working Capital adjustment , the 
Purchase Enterprise Value is adjusted up or down, and the PE firm either “takes” some of the 
company’s Working Capital or funds additional Working Capital such that the effective price the 
PE firm remains the same. So, in this case, the Purchase TEV would increase by $50, but the PE 
firm would also “take” $50 of the company’s Working Capital.  
This adjustment mostly affects the selling shareholders because it means th ey will get more or 
less depending on how they manage the company’s finances before the deal closes . If there’s a 
WC surplus, they’ll get this surplus amount because it increases the Purchase TEV and Purchase 
Equity Value; if there’s a WC deficit, this deficit gets deducted from both the Purchase TEV and 
Purchase Equity Value, reducing the proceeds to the shareholders.  
 
AFM -09-08: Stub Period Support on the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement ( 13:42 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll set up support for the stub periods on the financial statements so that the 
leveraged buyout can close midway through the company’s next fiscal year.  
LESSON NOTE:  From 10:20 to 10:30, we "forget" to copy across the  links at the top of the CFS . 
We return and fix this issue starting at 13:00  in the Recap and Summary section.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:21:  Income St atement  
• 7:10:  Cash Flow Statement  
• 12:19: Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
AFM -09-09: Balance Sheet “Rollforward” to Deal Close Date  (10:31 ) 
 
6 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You’ll link in Viridor’s historical Balance Sheets and “roll forward” the first projected one to the 
transaction close date in this lesson; you’ll then use this modified version in the transaction 
assumptions and Working Capital adjustments.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:03:  Historical Balance Sheets  
• 2:13:  Working Capital Line Items  
• 3:39:  Other Balance Sheet Line Items  
• 7:11:  Transaction Adjustments  
• 9:22:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:21 What’s the best way to “roll forward” the Balance Sheet when a transaction closes in 
between two fiscal years?  
a) Link in the stub period CFS numbers.  
b) Multiply line items by the stub period fraction.  
c) The best method depends on the specific line item.  
Explanat ion: The last answer choice is correct. The “best method” to roll forward the Balance 
Sheet up through the transaction close date depends on the line item. With the Working Capital 
line items, it’s easiest to multiply by fractions to estimate their values as of the close date. But 
with items such as Net PP&E , Other Intangibles , and Total Debt, it’s easiest to link to the 
corresponding Cash Flow Statement line items from the stub period there.  
 
AFM -09-10: Purchase Price Allocation and Balance Sheet Adjustm ents  (10:42 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll set up the Purchase Price Allocation schedule and the Balance Sheet 
adjustments for this deal, including changes due to its status as a cash -free, debt -free deal and 
the Working Capital adjustments . 
Table of Contents:  
• 0:58:  Purchase Price Allocation  
• 3:41:  Balance Sheet Adjustments  
• 9:17:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
 
7 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
9:16 Which of the following Balance Sheet adjustments occurs DIRECTLY because a deal is 
structured as an asset purchase rather than a stock purchase?  
a) The company’s existing Deferred Tax Liability (DTL) is written down.  
b) No new DTL is created since assets are written up for both book and tax purposes.  
c) The company’s Cash balance immediately post -transaction falls to its Minimum Cash.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is the best one. In an asset purchase, assets are written 
up for both book and tax purposes, so there’s no book vs. cash tax difference after the deal 
closes, which means no Deferred Tax Liability is crea ted. The first answer choice is true in most 
deals of all types, and the third answer has nothing to do with asset vs. stock purchases but is 
instead related to the cash -free/debt -free structure.  
 
AFM -09-11: Transaction Effects and Projecting and Linking t he Post -Transaction Balance 
Sheet  (14:19 ) 
You’ll calculate transaction effects, such as the amortization of new line items, and then you’ll 
use this information to link and project the Balance Sheet after the deal closes, from the stub 
period through the e nd of the holding period.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:52:  Income Statement  
• 5:58:  Cash Flow Statement  
• 7:10:  Balance Sheet  
• 12:48:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
AFM -09-12: Debt Schedule, Part 1: Revolver and Mandatory and Optional Repayments  
(13:38 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll set up the first part of the Debt Schedule, including the Cash Flow Available 
for Debt Repayment, the Revolver, and the mandatory and optional Debt principal repayments.  
 
8 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
LESSON NOTE:  At 3:00, we forget t o add the P IK Interest to the face values for the last two debt 
tranches (Subordinated Notes and Mezzanine) ; we  return and fix this issue in the next lesson 
when checking the Debt Schedule.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:11:  Mandatory Repayments  
• 4:55:  Cash Flow Available and Revolver  
• 7:13:  Optional Repayments  
• 11:17:  Linking the Debt Repayments  
• 12:30:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
12:30 In the Optional Debt Repayment schedule of an LBO, why do we not need to add the 
Revolver Borrowing to the remaining Revolver balance in the period when comparing the 
Revolver balance to the cash flow available * sweep percentage?  
a) Because if Revolver Borrowing is required, there cannot be any optional repayments.  
b) Because the Revolver never has mandatory repayme nts – only optional ones.  
c) Because 100% of the company’s available cash flow is always used to repay the Revolver 
first.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The first answer choice is correct. When a Revolver draw is required, the company 
cannot possibly make an y optional Debt principal repayments because it means the company’s 
Cash balance would end below its Minimum Cash – which is why we need to draw on the 
Revolver for additional funds. Therefore, it is unnecessary to add the Revolver Borrowing when 
checking his case. The fact that the Revolver has no mandatory repayments has nothing to do 
with this question, so the second answer is wrong. And the 100% cash flow sweep for the 
Revolver also has nothing to do with this question because even with the highest seni ority and 
a 100% sweep, any tranche of Debt – except for the Revolver – could potentially have 
additional draws that we need to add to the “current balance” before making optional 
repayments.  
 
AFM -09-13: Debt Schedule, Part 2: Net Interest Expense and Revolver Fees  (15:52 ) 
You’ll calculate the Net Interest Expense and the Revolver Commitment and Overdraw Fees in 
this lesson, including support for both average Debt balances (circular references) and 
beginning Debt balances (no circular references).  
 
9 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Table  of Contents:  
• 0:51:  Net Interest Expense  
• 9:08:  Revolver Fees  
• 11:46:  Linking the Statements  
• 14:48:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
14:48 What is the MAIN effect of the Commitment Fees on a partially undrawn Revolver 
along with the Overdrawn Fees?  
a) It depends on how much of the Revolver is drawn.  
b) They raise the effective interest rate.  
c) They incentivize the company to draw on as much of the Revolver as possible.  
d) They encourage the company to draw on other sources of Debt before the Revolver.  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is the best one. Since the fees apply to the Revolver 
regardless of the percentage drawn, they raise the effective interest rate. The first answer is a 
true statement,  but it doesn’t answer the question – yes, the exact effect depends on the 
drawn percentages, but even without knowing that, we can say that the effective interest rate 
goes up. These fees do not incentivize the company to draw on the maximum Revolver because 
the cash interest expense would also increase . And they don’t encourage the company to use 
other sources of Debt because the Revolver is still the cheapest in terms of interest and 
principal repayments.  
 
AFM -09-14: Debt Schedule, Part 3: Dividend Recap  (10:56 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll implement a Dividend Recap in Year 3 or 4 of the LBO model and change 
the formulas in the Debt Schedule and on the financial statements to support this feature.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:03:  Debt Schedule  
• 5:44:  Financial Statements  
• 9:31:  Recap an d Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
 
10 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
9:30  Why is a dividend recap in an LBO model unlikely to make a huge impact on the IRR to 
the private equity firm?  
a) Because most dividend recaps are based on relatively low multiples of EBITDA.  
b) Because a dividend recap only results in a partial recovery of the upfront investment 
earlier in the holding period.  
c) Because a dividend recap also means additional Debt to repay in the holding period or 
upon exit.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true and explains why  dividend recaps tend to make a small 
difference on the IRR and other output. They tend to be relatively small next to the upfront 
investment and exit value, and they also result in additional Debt that the company must repay, 
reducing its cash flow during  the holding period and the exit equity value if the additional Debt 
is not fully repaid by then.  
 
AFM -09-15: Tax Schedule and Net Operating Losses (NOL) in an Asset Purchase (9:09 ) 
You will set up the Tax Schedule for the LBO model in this lesson and use it to track the 
company’s NOL accruals and usages throughout the holding period.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:20:  Taxable Income  
• 3:35:  Net Operating Losses  
• 6:34:  Linking the Statements  
• 8:05:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
8:04 In which of the following LBO scenarios would a Tax and NOL Schedule be likely to make 
the BIGGEST difference?  
a) The acquisition of a large, public company for a small premium.  
b) The acquisition of a large, public company for a large premium.  
c) A divestiture  of one specific division at a huge premium to Net Assets.  
d) The acquisition of a small, closely held private company for a high EBITDA multiple.  
Explanation:  The third answer choice is the correct one. Taxes make the biggest impact in an 
LBO model when item s that are not normally cash -tax deductible, such as Goodwill 
Amortization, become deductible at significant levels, which is what happens when the deal is 
 
11 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
structured as an asset purchase rather than a stock purchase (most common for divestitures 
and small er, private companies). The first two answers are not correct because public company 
acquisitions are almost always stock purchases, and the last answer is not the best one because 
we don’t know whether or not the equity purchase price represents a huge pr emium to the 
company’s Net Assets  (a high multiple increases the likelihood but  doesn’t necessarily prove it).  
 
AFM -09-16: Credit Stats and Ratios, ROIC, and LBO Exit Multiples  (16:13 ) 
In this lesson, you will calculate the credit stats and ratios for Viridor and use its Return on 
Invested Capital (ROIC) before and after the deal to estimate the proper range of EBITDA exit 
multiples in the different scenarios.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:25:  EBITDA, Debt, and Interest  
• 6:16:  Debt Paydown, Growth, Margins, and R OIC 
• 13:02:  Conclusions and Assumption Changes  
• 15:06:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
15:05 Why might the ROIC calculation in an LBO model differ in the pre -transaction and post -
transaction periods?  
a) The tax rate often changes after the deal takes place.  
b) There may be additional D&A on assets written up in the deal, which affects EBIT.  
c) You might treat operating lease liabilities differently in each period.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is correct. It makes no sense to assume  a different tax 
rate or to treat operating lease liabilities after the deal closes (unless the tax rate is set to 
change in a future year), but there is frequently additional depreciation and amortization on 
asset write -ups in leveraged buyouts. That addi tional D&A is deducted to calculate EBIT or 
Operating Income, and NOPAT is based on EBIT * (1 – Tax Rate).  
 
AFM -09-17: Exit Equity Value and Project -Level Returns  (11:14 ) 
You’ll estimate the Exit Equity Value in this LBO model in different exit years in this lesson, 
factoring in the debt repayment, prepayment penalties, and equity grants to the mezzanine 
 
12 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
investors, and you’ll calculate the returns to the PE firm before the dividend recap and 
management earn -outs.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:55:  Exit Equity Value  & Debt Repayments  
• 5:19:  Prepayment Penalties & Equity Grants  
• 8:33:  Project -Level Returns  
• 10:12:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
[No quiz questions.]  
 
AFM -09-18: Management Earnouts and Sponsor Returns with Dividend Recap  (8:21 ) 
You’ll estimate the equity returns, i.e., the returns to the private equity firm, in this lesson, 
factoring in the earn -outs paid to management, the dividend recap, the stub period, and the 
scenarios and variable exit years.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:28:  Earn -Outs to Management  
• 4:00:  Returns to Sponsor  
• 7:30:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
7:29 In an LBO model, is a Dividend Recap likely to make a bigger impact on the PE firm’s IRR 
or returns multiple?  
a) The IRR.  
b) The returns multiple.  
c) It will make about the same percentage impact on both.  
Explanation:  A Dividend Recap will make a bigger impact on the IRR because of the time value 
of money. Essentially, it means that instead of waiting to get some of their invested capital back 
at the end of the deal (the exit), th e PE firm can recover some of this upfront investment earlier 
in the holding period. This doesn’t necessarily change the multiple  by much (if anything), but it 
will boost the IRR in most cases since it shifts the returns to an earlier year . 
 
13 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
AFM -09-19: Returns to Lenders (OID, Issuance Fees, Prepayment Penalties, and Equity 
Granted)  (14:14 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll estimate the IRRs, multiples, and recovery percentages for the lenders, 
including the Senior Unsecured Noteholders, Subordinated Noteholders, and Mezzanine 
investors, including the impact of OID, issuance fees, cash interest and principal repayments, 
prepayment penalties, and equity granted.  
Table of Contents:  
• 1:13:  Senior Unsecured Notes  
• 4:45:  Subordinated Notes  
• 8:40:  Mezzanine  
• 11:19:  Conclusions  
• 13:04:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
13:03 How does Paid -in-Kind (PIK) Interest affect the IRR to lenders in an LBO?  
a) It makes no direct impact on the cash flows, but it does indirectly affect components of 
the cash flows.  
b) It increases the Cash Interest over time by increasing the Debt principal.  
c) It increases the “Repayment Upon Exit” and “Prepayment Penalty” lines by increasing 
the Debt principal.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is correct. PIK Intere st does not appear as an explicit line item in 
the returns schedule for lenders, but it affects many line items in this schedule, including the 
Cash Interest, Principal Repayment Upon Exit, and Prepayment Penalty, because it increases 
the Debt balan ce over time.  
 
AFM -09-20: Sensitivities for Equity Investors and Lenders  (10:07 ) 
You’ll set up sensitivity tables for the IRRs and recoveries for the different investor groups in 
this lesson, and you’ll draw quick conclusions about the conditions that might make the deal 
work more effectively.  
Table of Contents:  
 
14 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• 1:15:  Creating the Tables and Determining the Ranges  
• 6:23:  Conclusions  and Fixes  
• 9:19:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:18 Why might the IRR in an LBO be higher for both the lenders and the equity investors 
with an earlier exit date?  
a) The exit multiple might not increase over time to compensate for the longer holding 
period in later years.  
b) The time value of money makes it easier to earn higher IRRs based on the same money -
on-money multiple if the holding period is shorter.  
c) Items like dividends, OID, and prepayment penalties contribute more to the IRR when 
the holding period is shorter.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. For the same money -on-mone y multiple, the IRR will 
always be higher in a shorter holding period because the annualized rate of return increases. 
One-time items, such as dividends, OID, and prepayment penalties, are also more significant for 
the IRR when the holding period is shorte r because they’re “distributed” over fewer years.  The 
first answer choice makes the point that if the exit multiple remains at 20x (for example), and 
the company’s EBITDA does not grow much, the time value of money means that the IRR is 
likely to be lower with a later exit date.  
 
AFM -09-21: Investment Recommendation Presentation (Equity)  (11:06 ) 
In this lesson, you’ll learn how to structure and draft a 10 -slide investment recommendation 
presentation for this leveraged buyout, including both market data from  outside research and 
the numerical output from the LBO model.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:28:  Outline and Structure  
• 1:26:  Overview  
• 3:15:  Market  
• 4:02:  LBO Model Output  
• 8:04:  Counter -Factual  
• 9:49:  Recap and Summary  
 
15 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Quiz Questions:  
9:49 How might you use data on a company’s market in an investment recommendation for a 
leveraged buyout?  
a) To determine whether the revenue growth assumptions match the market growth rate.  
b) To figure out if the company’s spending and CapEx match historical and market norms.  
c) To assess the potential for add -on acquisitions and further market consolidation.  
d) All of the above.  
Explanation:  Everything above is true. You can use the market data to assess the industry's 
overall attractiveness , the company’s ability to make add -on acquisiti ons, and the plausibility of 
the key revenue, expense, and CapEx assumptions.  
 
AFM -09-22: Investment Recommendation Presentation for Lenders  (10:06 ) 
You’ll learn how a 10 -slide investment recommendation for the lenders in this deal might differ 
in this lesson, including how to present the numbers and market data differently and highlight 
different risk factors and possible mitigants.  
Table of Contents:  
• 0:38:  Outline and Structure  
• 2:26:  Overview  
• 4:06:  Market  
• 4:37:  The Numbers  
• 6:40:  Risk Factors  
• 8:51:  Recap and Summary  
 
Quiz Questions:  
6:39 How might “The Numbers” section of an investment recommendation presentation 
differ for the equity investors vs. the lenders?  
a) The lender version would focus on the range of outcomes in different scenarios.  
b) The lender version would focus on the chances of losing money in different scenarios.  
c) The lender version would not include references to the IRR output.  
d) All of the above.  
 
16 of 16  https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Explanation:  The second answer choice is correct. The equit y investors and the lenders care 
about their respective IRRs and the deal’s outcome in different scenarios, but lenders pay far 
more attention to the downside cases because their upside is relatively capped (aside from 
special features such as equity grant ed to certain lender groups). This focus on downside risk is 
the key difference  between equity and debt investment recommendations.  