 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Three -Statement Projections  
Table of Contents:  
Why Project the Three Financial Statements?  ................................ ................................ .. 2 
Step 1: Project Revenue in a Reasonable Level of Detail  ................................ ...............  3 
Step 2: Project Expenses and/or Margins  ................................ ................................ ...... 7 
Step 3: Project the Operational Balance Sheet Items and Link Them to the CFS  ........  10 
Step 4: Project the Remaining Cash Flow Statement Line Items  ................................ . 13 
Step 5: Link the Interest on the IS and Everything on the BS  ................................ ...... 15 
Step 6: Create Summary Statistics ................................ ................................ ...............  17 
Interview Questions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  20 
Three -Statement Projections  ................................ ................................ ......................  20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Why Project the Three Financial Statements?  
In many modeling tests and case studies, you’ll receive requests to “project the financial 
statements” for a company.  
For example, a banker might give you a company’s Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Cash 
Flow Statement for the past 3 years and say, “Please project this company’s statements over 
the next 5 years.”  
You then have to make reasonable assumptions for the company’s revenue growth, margins, 
taxes, and cash flow to create these projections.  
Do NOT  get lost in the weeds with th is exercise.  
The purpose of creating a “3 -statement projection  model ” for a company is to estimate its 
Cash F low, Cash, and Debt balances over the years.  
Repeat after me: CASH FLOW IS KING.  
Too often, people obsess over small details that don’t make a difference: Should you link 
Accounts Receivable to Revenue? Or should you project it based on Days Sales Outstanding?  
Should you make Depreciation a percentage of CapEx? Or Revenue? Or create a schedule?  
Should you project each Working Capital item separately, or group the entire section together?  
Here’s the answer to everything : It doesn’t matter what you do as long as you get the 
company’s CASH FLOW directionally correct.  
For example , if the co mpany has grown its Cash F low in each historical  year, and its revenue is 
expected to grow at 10 -15%, with its marg ins staying the same, then its Cash F low should  grow 
in the future as well.  
On the other hand, if the company has had negative Cash Flow despite solid growth and 
margins, then it will probably continue to lose C ash in the future.  
If the case study provides specific instructions, you should follow them . If they want projections 
for individual Working Capital items, make them. If they want a Depreciation Schedule, build it.  
But in my experience, most people waste A TON of time and mental energy by worrying 
about irrelevant items in these projections.  
Before we walk through the process step -by-step , I’ll make one other important point: You 
don’t necessarily need  to create 3 -statement projections when analyzing a company.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Why?  
Because you could just project the company’s revenue , expenses, and cash flow items, and 
determine the company’s Cash, Debt, and Equity balances like that!  
We use the same approach throughout all the courses and guides on the site: In simpler DCF, 
M&A, and LBO models, we often  project the company’s “Cash F low” and skip full projections.  
Full Balance Sheet projections are unnecessary  because a company’s Cash, Debt, and Equity 
balances change based on its Cash Flow Statement – and you can project everything  on its Cash 
Flow Statement independently!  
Also, you don’t even need  a full Cash Flow Statement because many items on it are non -
recurring (e.g., most of the Cash Flow from Financing  section ). You could away with projecting 
just Cash Flow from Operations a nd CapEx and leave it at that.  
There are a few exceptions in certain industries, such as commercial banks and life insurance, 
but we’re describing the “standard” industries here (e.g., technology, industrials, healthcare, 
consumer/retail, power/utilities, etc.).  
So, before you spend time projecting the 3 financial statements , verify that you need to do it.  
 
Step 1: Project Revenue in a Reasonable Level of Detail  
There are dozens of industries and dozens of ways to project a company’s revenue.  
The “best” method depends on:  
1) The company’s industry . 
 
2) How much data  you have.  
 
3) How much time  you have.  
 
4) The purpose  and intended  audience  of the analysis.  
Broadly speaking, you can project revenue in 3 main ways : 
1) A simple percentage growth rate.  
 
2) # Units Sold * Average Price per Unit.  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
3) Market Share * Market Size.  
If you ’re pressed  for time , and you have limited data, you’ll often use the first method.  
For example, if you’re completing a 30 -minute case study, and the instructions tell you that the 
company’s revenue should grow at 10% per year, use that number . 
On the other hand, if you have more time – 60 minutes up to several hours or days – you will 
almost always use methods #2 or #3.  
These more complex methods won’t necessarily give you different numbers, but they will 
make your numbers easier to justify.  
For example, if you’re presenting your work to an MD, he/she could easily grill you if he/she 
sees a random 8% revenue growth rate  assumption  in your model.  
But if you can explain it by saying, “The company’s unit sales are expected to grow by 5% based 
on the 3 new sales reps  it’s hiring, and i ts prices are increasing by 3%; those changes result in an 
8% growth rate, ” then the MD will be far less likely to question you.  
Here are a few examples of how you might project revenue for companies at different maturity 
stages in different industries:  
Example #1: High -Growth Recruiting/Headhunting Firm (Frank Recruitment)  
Here, we link the company’s revenue (“Turnover” in U.K. terminology) to the number of sales 
reps and the sales per sales rep (“Sales Rep Productivity”):  
 
 
Example #2: Mature Airline Company (Avianca)  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
An airline operates a certain number of flights, which are represented  by its “Available Seat 
Kilometers” (ASK) or “Available Seat Miles” (ASM).  
But it never sells 100% of the seats on all its flights – so you have to multiply the total number 
of Available  Seat Kilometers or Seat Miles by the “Load Factor” to determine how many ASK or 
ASM it earns revenue  on. 
Then, you assume that each mile or kilometer flown  generat es a certain amount of revenue 
based on the average ticket price passengers have paid.  
For example, if the average ticket from New York to London costs $500, and it’s about 5,500 km  
between the cities , that’s a “Yield” of $0.091 per R evenue Seat K ilometer.  
You then aggregate this number over all the passengers and flights, or use simple averages:  
 
 
Example #3: Expansion -Stage Retailer (Michael Hill)  
For a retailer, revenue is based  on the number of stores times the average revenue per store, or 
the number of square feet or square meters times the sales per square foot or square meter.  
You could make these projections granular and look at individual stores, or you could go higher -
level and divide the company into several different regions, as we do for Michael Hill:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
Example #4: Mature Technology Company (Dell)  
Large, mature companies operate in so many markets that it is often difficult to determine the 
number of units sold and the average unit price.  
If your company is one of a few players in a large market (e. g., a $50 billion market where 3 
companies each have 20 -30% market share), it’s often better to project revenue based on 
market share and market size.  
Here’s an example for Dell:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Bottom Line:  There is no  “best” way to project revenue. It depends on the company, its 
markets, and the time and resources available to you.  
Regardless of the method you use, you must be able to justify  your assumptions – even if it’s a 
time -pressured case study where you’re in a rush to finish.  
 
Step 2: Project Expenses and/or  Margins  
Once you ’ve projected the company’s revenue, you need to project its expenses: Cost of Goods 
Sold (COGS) and Operating Expenses such as Selling, General & Administrative (SG&A), 
Research & Development (R&D), and Sale s & Marketing (S&M).  
You often project these items in less detail than the company’s revenue.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if the company’s operating margin has risen from 10% to 11% historically, you 
might continue that trend and make it rise to 12% over the next few years.  
In more complex models, you could link these expenses to individual employees, units sold, 
factories, or other assumptions.  
As with the revenue projections, the best approach depends on your time, your data, the 
industry, and the purpose of the anal ysis.  
Here’s a simple example of expense projections  for Frank Recruitment:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The rest of the expenses come from separate schedules or simple percentages:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We show the Interest Expense and Interest Income in the screenshot above, but typically you 
would NOT  be able to project them at this stage of the model.  
You have to forecast the company’s Cash and Debt balances first, which means you have to 
project the Balance Sheet and/or  Cash Flow Statement.  
 
Step 3: Project the Operational Balance Sheet Items  and Link Them to the CFS 
“Operational Balance Sheet Items” refers to ones such as Accounts Receivable, Inventory, 
Prepaid Expenses, Deferred Revenue, and Accounts Payable . 
These items relate directly  to the company’s core business of making and selling products to 
customers, and they trend with the company’ s Income Statement line items.  
Typically, you link revenue -related items to the company’s Revenue (or “Turnover” in U.K. 
terminology).  
For example, you’ll often make Accounts Receivable (AR) and Deferred Revenue (DR) 
percentages of Revenue based on historical trends.  
If AR as a percentage of Revenue has increased from 10% to 12% in the past 3 years, you might 
continue that trend and make it increase to 15% over the next 5 years.  
But you also have to consider the company’s business model: Is there a specific  reason  why 
these items should be changing?  
If the company  is switching to subscriptions, with a large portion paid upfront, then it’s 
reasonable that Deferred Revenue as a perc entage of Revenue will increase over time.  
But if the company’s business model is not changing, then these percentages s hould not  change 
dramatically.  
You usually link items related to expenses, such as Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses, and 
Other Liabili ties to Operating Expenses, COGS, or specific expenses on the Income Statement.  
For example, if Accrued Expenses represented 5% of Operating Expenses 3 years ago and rose 
to 6% last year, you might make it increase to 7% or 8% over the next few years.  
But if jumped from 5.0% to 6.5% to 4.3%, you might use an average of those percentages since 
it’s not following a clear trend.  
Do NOT obsess over the spec ific Income Statement line item(s) you link these operational 
Balance Sheet items to  – it barely makes a d ifference.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We’ve received approximately 52,471 questions to the effect of: “Help! I can’t decide whether 
to link Accrued Expenses to Total Operating Expenses or SG&A. I’m going to die if I can’t figure 
this out. Help me!!!!!!!!  I’m dying!!!! ” 
IT DOESN’T MATTER.  
Think about the big picture:  How will that decision affect the company’s CASH FLOW?  
You just want to ensure that the company’s Change in Working Capital follows a reasonable 
trend as its Revenue increases or decreases.  
For example, if the C hange in Working Capital has been negative as Revenue has increased, it 
should continue to be negative going forward because the company needs to spend in advance 
of its growth  (e.g., a retailer purchasing Inventory).  
As long as you get that overall trend  correct, the specifics do not matter much.  
Here’s what we did for Frank Recruitment:  
 
And then we multiplied these percentages by the corresponding Income Statement items to 
project these line items on the Balance Sheet:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Finally, we linked these Balance Sheet items to the Cash Flow Statement by subtracting New 
Assets from Old Assets and subtracting Old L iabilities from New Liabilities:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here, the Change in Working Capital (“Changes in Operating Assets and Liabilities”) is  about 
(7%) to (3%) of the company’s Change in Revenue each year.  
If we had historical data, we’d want to see those numbers  in the historical data as well.  
If the historical  Change in WC as a % of the Change in Revenue  ranged from (25%) to (20%) or 
from 30% to 40%, we’d have to rethink these assumptions.  
 
Step 4: Project the Remaining Cash Flow Statement Line Items  
Once you’ve projected the operational  Balance Sheet line  items and linked the changes to the 
Cash Flow Statement, you forecast the remaining Cash Flow Statement line items . 
Some of these items may be based on simple percentages, while others m ay come from 
separate schedules, depending on the time available and the company’s industry.  
For ex ample, if you’re projecting an airline, manufacturer, or railroad company, Capital 
Expenditures (CapEx)  are important, and it’s worthwhile to create a separate schedule for 
them.  
But if you’re modeling a software company, CapEx is almost irrelevant because software 
companies grow based on employee productivity, not capital asset productivity.  
Often, the Amortization of Intangible Assets  is more  important for these companies. We use d 
fairly simple assumptions for Frank Recruitment:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We also created a separate Debt schedule because we assumed that the investors used a 
modest amount of Debt  (Term Loans A and B and a “Shareholder Loan ”) to acquire the 
company.  
The Term Loans had modest amortization and variable interest rates linked to LIBOR, while the 
Shareholder Loan had no amortization and a fixed 10% interest rate:  
 
These are the only supporting schedules in this model, so  we can move to the Cash Flow 
State ment and flesh out everything there.  
You always start the Cash Flow Statement projections by linking to Net Income (or “Profit After 
Taxes”) from the Income Statement.  
Then, you record the non -cash adjustments – Depreciation, Amortization, and PIK Interest  in 
this case – and the Changes in Working Capital, which we completed in the previous step.  
Here’s our Cash Flow Statement for the company:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The main takeaway is that this company generates A LOT of extra Cash over the years.  
An analyst or investor looki ng at this Cash Flow Statement might ask, “What is the company 
planning to do with all that Cash? What should  it be doing?”  
 
Step 5: Link the Interest on the IS and Everything on the BS 
Finally, you return to the Income Statement and link in the Interest:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You complete this step  last because Interest depends on the company’s Cash and Debt, and you 
need the Cash Flow Statement (and possibly a Debt Schedule) to project those balances.  
Here’s the final Balance Sheet for the company:  
 
If you don’t know how to link an item, make it flow into Equity . 
Every  item on the CFS must be linked to something  on the Balance Sheet  once  and only once , so 
you can’t “leave out” an item if you don’t know where it goes.  
If you do, the Balance Sheet will go out of balance.  
The other rules covered in the Accounting guides apply  to this process as well : On the Assets 
side, use negative signs when you link to items from the CFS, and on the L&E side, use positive 
signs when you link to items  from the CFS.  
One final note: In the example above, we added the PIK Interest on the CFS to Equity on the 
Balance Sheet.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
But that is NOT the normal treatment . Instead, for most normal Debt, you should add the PIK 
Interest on the CFS to the corresponding Debt line item on the Balance Sheet.  
It’s different here because this Debt is a “Shareholder Loan,” which is classified  as Equity and 
which lets the equity investor s in the company deduct the interest  paid each year.  
 
Step 6: Create Summary Statistics  
It’s nice to build a complex, 3 -statement model with 5,234 rows in Excel, but senior people do 
not have time to read every last detail . 
To save them time and make your conclusions more concise, you may create a “model 
summary” at the end.  
The information presented in this summary depends on the purpose of the model.  A few 
examples:  
• Credit Analysis:  If you’re assessing a company’s ability t o repay Debt, you might focus 
on credit statistics and ratios, such as Debt / EBITDA, EBITDA / Interest, and the Debt 
Service Coverage Ratio.  
 
• Equity Investment Analysis:  If you’re analyzing a potential equity investment in a 
company, you’ll focus on metri cs such as the internal rate of return (IRR) and money -on-
money (MoM) multiples.  
 
• Valuation:  You might focus on the company’s revenue, EBITDA, cash flow, growth r ates, 
and margins.  
 
• M&A  Analysis:  You might focus on the company’s growth rates, EPS, and other per -
share metrics so you can assess how those metrics change in a deal.  
The Frank Recruitment case study was based  on a potential equity investment in the company, 
but we decided to show a mix of the metrics  above : 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The next steps depend on a few factors.  
First, what is the purpose  of the model? If we built this projection model to answer a case study 
or complete a modeling test, then we’re done.  
But if we built it to analyze a real, potential investment, we’d go into the numbers in more 
depth at this stage.  
For example, we might dig into the revenue growth and margin assumptions, see if we can 
come up with more detailed rationale, and find data from the industry and peer companies to 
support our assumptions.  
If there aren’t enough qualified sales reps for the  company to grow at this pace, we might have 
to re -think that assumption.  
If there’s no way for the company to maintain its margins because no peer companies have 
done so as they’ve grown, we might have to re -think that assumption.  
We would also stress tes t the model and create Downside scenarios to see how well the deal 
holds up in those cases.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if the company’s revenue g rowth falls to 10 -15% in Year 1  and then declines to 
5%, do we lose money on the deal? Or  do we still earn at least a 1.0 x multiple?  
We might also think about the company’s Cash F low and the extra Cash it generates.  
In this case, it’s significant: Cash goes from £12 million GBP to over £100 million in the span of 5 
years.  
If the company isn’t doing anything with that Cash, investors might view that as a wasted 
opportunity and encourage the company to return the Cash to shareholders, make acquisitions, 
or re -invest in the business.  
Most of these “next steps” are more important in buy-side roles  – ones where you’re investing 
the firm’s capital  – because far more is at stake there.  
In investment banking roles, you care the most about finishing the model, making sure the 
client likes it, and then moving on.  
Return to Top . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
Interview questions about 3-statement modeling are unlikely  unless you’ve had significant 
experience in investment banking or private equity.  
But even if you have  had that experience, you’re more likely to receive case studies  on these 
topics than interview questions.  
If a bank wants to assess your ability to buil d a 3 -statement model, they’ll ask you to build one.  
If a bank wants to see if you understand metrics and ratios derived from a 3 -statement model, 
they’ll ask you to calculate and interpret them.  
Despite that, we wanted to provide a brief set of questions and answers to guide your 
preparation.  
 
Three -Statement Projections  
You’re more likely to receive these questions in the context of case studies or modeling tests 
that you have to present and explain in interviews.  
For example, bankers may ask how you projected revenue for a company or why you picked 
certain assumptions, and you must be able to justify your numbers.  
 
1. Do you always *need* to project the 3 financial statements for a company?  
No. You could easily project only the company’s Free Cash Flow by forecasting its Income 
Statement and the top part of its Cash Flow Statement: Non -cash adjustments, Changes in 
Working Capital, and CapEx.  
Those FCF projections drive a company’s implied value and determine its Cash and Debt 
balances  over time, so you don’t need a “full” projection of all 3 statements.  
Full projections help you to forecast certain items in more granular detail and observe the 
company’s full capital structure over time.  
 
2. What's the main point of projecting a company's financial statements?  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You want to capture the company’s cash flow and how that cash flow affects the company’s 
Cash, Debt, and Equity over time.  
Besides that, the purpose of the projections depends on the model: If you’re valuing a 
company, the projections might be simple and stop with FCF.  
If you’re evaluating the company’s ability to raise and pay off Debt, you might focus on metrics 
such as Debt  / EBITDA and EBITDA  / Interest.  
If you’re looking at a potential equity investment in the company, you might focus on metrics 
such as the IRR and MoM multiple.  
 
3. How do you project a company's revenue?  
You could use a simple percentage growth rate assumption, base it on Units Sold * Average 
Unit Price, or base it on Market Share * Total Market Size.  
The best method depends on the company’s market and how much time and information you 
have.  
For example, if the company discloses Units Sold and Average Unit Prices in its filings, you can  
use them to forecast its revenue.  
But if the company sells hundreds of products at different prices  and operates in a market with  
a known size and  3-4 major players , you might use Market Share * Total Market Size.  
 
4. How do you project a company's expenses and margins?  
You could use simple percentages for all the expenses and link them to revenue; for example, 
COGS might be 50% of revenue and SG&A might be 20% of revenue . 
Or, you could project expenses on a per -employee, per-location, per -unit, or per -factory basis.  
For example, you might assume that each widget costs $10 and that costs are increasing by 4% 
per year.  
And then you might assume that the company needs one employee for each $500K of revenue, 
link the employee count to that, and assume a growth rate for employee salaries and benefits.  
Items such as rent, advertising , and administrative expenses may be linked  to the company’s 
internal business plans or historical growth rates.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
5. How do you project Working Capital items, such as Accounts Receivable, Inventory, and 
Accounts Payable?  
Normally, you assume that these are percentages of revenue , COGS, or operating expenses  
because most of them relate to a company’s core business : 
• Accounts Receivable:  % of  Revenue.  
• Prepaid Expense: % of Operating Expenses.  
• Inventory:  % of COGS.  
• Deferred Revenue:  % of Revenue.  
• Accounts Payable:  % of COGS or Operating Expenses.  
• Accrued Expenses:  % of Operating Expenses.  
Then, you assume a specific percentage for each one based on historical trends or averages.  
You could  also project these metrics using “Days. ” For example, Days Sales Outstanding  = 
Accou nts Receivable / Annual Revenue * 365. This figure represents how long it takes, on 
average, to collect Receivables from c ustomers.  
You might assume that it changes based on historical trends or averages and then calculate the 
AR number each year based on Days Sales Outstanding.  
 
6. How can you make sure your Working Capital assumptions are reasonable?  
You should look at the total Change in Working Capital and compare it to the company’s 
Revenue and Change in Revenue.  
The Change in Working Capital represents whether a company generates  additional Cash or 
needs  extra Cash to fund its growth.  So, it should  trend with the Cha nge in Revenue.  
If the Change in WC as a % of the Change in Revenue has been 5 -10% historically, it should stay 
in that same range going forward.  
You can also compare the  Change in WC to the company’s T otal Revenue if Change in WC / 
Change in Revenue does not produce clean, consistent figures.  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
7. How should you project Depreciation and Capital Expenditures?  
You could use several approaches:  
• Simplest:  Make each one a % of revenue.  
• Alternative:  Make Depreciation a % of revenue, but link CapEx to an absolute dollar 
increase or percentage change.  
• Complex: Create a PP&E schedule. E stimate a CapEx increase each year based on 
management’s p lans, and then d epreciate the existing PP&E  using each asset’ s useful 
life. Depreciating the new CapEx spending right after it takes place. Sum up the total 
CapEx and total Depreciation each year.  
 
8. Why do you link in the Interest Income and Interest Expense on the Income Statement as 
the LAST part of the process when projecting the financial statements?  
You need the company’s Cash and Debt balances to calculate the Interest Income and Interest 
Expense, so you need the rest of the financial statements first. 
You might also use supporting schedules, such as a Debt Schedule, and you create those after  
finishing most of the model.  
Finally, depending on the model setup , the Interest link ma y create a circular reference. C ircular 
references make models m ore difficult to modify, so you should save this step until the end.  
 
9. What's the key output from a 3-statement projection model?  
Besides the company’s  Cash, Debt, and Equity figures, the key output varies based on the 
analysis.  
If you’re analyzing a potential equity investment in a company, the key output is the IRR and 
MoM multi ples under different scenarios.  
In a credit analysis, the credit stats and ratios (Debt  / EBITDA, EBITDA  / Interest, etc.) in 
different cases are most important.  
You might also focus on the company’s financial metrics and ratios, such as ROA, ROE, and 
ROIC, especially if you’re doing a “quick assessment” of the company.  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 24 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
10. How do quarterly projections differ from annual projections?  
The projection methodology is the same, but you have to use Year -over -Year (YoY ) figures for 
the growth rates each quarter due to seasonality (e.g., sales might be the highest in Q4 and the 
lowest in Q1 each year ). 
You still make most CFS/BS line items percentages of Income Statement items, but you should 
base them on the Last Twelve Months’ (LTM)  figures instead.  
For example, a company’s AR balance at  the end of Q2 should be linked to the company’s 
revenue from Q3 of last year into Q2 of this year – the past 4 quarters . 
It’s misleading if you only link AR to revenue in Q2 of this year because the balance might also 
include much older receivables.  
Return to Top . 