 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
More Advanced Accounting  
Table of Contents:  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  ................................ ................................ .......................  2 
Key Rule #1: Book Value, Face Value, and Market Value of Debt  ................................ .. 2 
Key Rule #2: Debt Discounts, Premiums, and Original Issue Discount (OID)  .................  7 
Key Rule #3: Convertible Bond Accounting  ................................ ................................ . 13 
Key Rule #4: Types of Debt, PIK Interest, and Debt Schedules in Real Life  ..................  20 
Key Rule #5: Equity Method of Accounting (Equity Investments)  ...............................  26 
Key Rule #6: Consolidation Accounting (Noncontrolling Interests)  .............................  34 
Key Rule #7: Stock -Based Compensation and Excess Tax Benefits  ..............................  47 
Key Rule #8: Unrealized Gains and Lo sses on Financial Investments  ..........................  54 
Key Rule #9: LIFO vs. FIFO vs. Average Weighted Cost for Inventory  ..........................  61 
Key Rule #10: Overview of Pension Accounting  ................................ ..........................  65 
Interview Questions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  79 
More Advanced Conceptual Questions  ................................ ................................ .......  79 
Advanced Accounting Scenarios on the Financial Statements  ................................ .... 86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Overview & Key Rules of Thumb  
This guide contains a mix  of accounting -related topics that don’t fit into the other technical 
guides.  
These topics are all more advanced  and, therefore, less likely to come up in interviews.  
You’re more likely to get these types of questions if you’ve had significant experience in 
investment banking or other finance roles, or you’re in a region where one of these topics has 
special importance . 
For example, in many continental European countries, bankers like to test your knowledge of  
consolidation accounting  – how a parent company records the acquisition of a majority or 
minority stake in a subsidiary – so the section s on Noncontrolling Interests  and Equity 
Investments  are more important there.  
On the other hand, the section on LIFO vs. FIFO vs. Average Weighted Cost for Inventory and 
COGS  is less relevant in Europe because IFRS does not allow LIFO.  
All these topics are less important than the core subjects: Basic Accounting, Equity Value and 
Enterprise Value , Valuation and DCF Analysis, and Merger Models and LBO Models.  
So, you should not spend a ton of time studying this guide unless you’re already very confident 
in your knowledge of everything else.  
 
Key Rule # 1: Book Value, Face Value, and Market Value of Debt  
Just like there’s a difference between the Book Value  and Market Value  of Equity, there may 
also be a difference between the Book Value of Debt (what goes on the Balance Sheet) and the 
Market Value of Debt (how much another investor would pay for it  in the market ). 
But there’s another  value with Debt as well: Face Value.  
Book Value vs. Face Value is easiest to explain, so let’s start there:  
• Face Value  = The amount the company initially issues and pays interest on. This one is 
affected only by Debt Issuances, Principal Repayments, and PIK Interest . 
 
• Book Value  = The amount shown on the company's Balance Sheet. This one is affected 
by unamortized Issuance Fees , Debt Discount s and Premiums , Debt Issuances, Principal 
Repayments, and PIK Interest . 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The most important point here is that the number listed for Debt on a company’s Balance 
Sheet is NOT necessarily what it’s paying interest on!  
It may be close, but it’s rarely the same.  
The first difference emerges when a company issues Debt.  
When this happen s, the company must pay “ Issuance Fees” to the banks and lenders that 
arrange d the de al, as payment for their services.  
These fees are paid upfront in cash, but they’re deducted  from the Debt number that goes on 
the Balance Sheet (the Book Value), and then they amortize until the Debt matures.  
Here’s what a $100 Debt issuance with 3% in Issuance Fees looks like:  
 
The Amortization is based on the Issuance Fee of $3 divided by the Debt Maturity of 5 years, so 
$3 / 5 = $0.6 per year.  
Then, in the Interest Expense line item on the Income Statement, both  the cash interest 
expense of $100 * 5.0% = $5 and the $0.6 Amortization of Issuance Fees are included.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the company repays its Debt early  (before Year 5 ), then it record s a “Loss on Debt 
Extinguishment” that’s equal to the remaining Unamortized Issuance Fee s: 
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
And on the Cash Flow Statement, both the Amortization of Issuance Fees and the Loss on Debt 
Extinguishment are non -cash add -backs:  
 
The Market Value , or “Price ,” of Debt is based on the Present Value of its future cash flows.  
Both the interest payments and the eventual principal repayment are components of those 
future cash flows.  
So, everything that affects the Present Value also affect s the Market Value of Debt: the 
Discount Rate, the expected future cash flows, and the repayment probability upon maturity.  
The Discount Rate here is the Yield to Maturity (YTM) on other, similar Debt issuances in the 
market.  
The Market Value of Debt change s when the Discount Rate change s due to changing interest 
rates in the macro environment; a change in the company’s credit quality could also cause it.  
For example, if Company A has a $100 Debt issuance with a 5.0% fixed coupon rate, and 
prevailing yields on similar Debt in the market d ecrease from 5.0% to 4.0%, the Market Value of 
its Debt issuance will increase.  
Why?  
Because  it’s now more attractive than other, similar options in the market, so buyers are 
willing to pay more to get that higher coupon rate.  
Here’s what the calculation looks like in Excel : 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
You could also use the PRICE function to calculate this in Excel, but it won’t match up exactly to 
the manual approach used above.  
The Market Value increase s when Prevailing Yields decrease, or when the Repayment 
Probability increases . It will decrease when Prevailing Yields increase, or when the Repayment 
Probability decreases.  
The Market Value of Debt makes no direct impact  on the financial statements. The Book 
Value and Face Value of Debt are not affected by its Market Value.  
The Market Value matters mostly for bond analysis and investing in fixed income.  
However, if this difference between the coupon rate on the Debt issuance and Prevailing Yields 
exists  at the time of the initial issuance , then the company may issue the Debt at a premium or 
discount  to its Face Value.  
When that happens, it’s called “Original Issue Discount” (OID) or “Original Issue Premium” 
(OIP), and, once again, the accounting changes ( see the next section ). 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A company might also issue the Debt at a discount if investors are not confident of its credit 
quality, and they want an additional “ incentive ” to buy into its offering.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 2: Debt Discounts, Premiums, and Original Issue Discount (OID)  
As discussed in the previous section, the Market Value  of Debt often differs from its Face Value  
because of changes in interest rates or the company's credit quality (e.g., the company issues 
Debt at a 5% coupon rate , but similar issuances currently yield 6%).  
If the Market Value upon  initial issuance  is different from the Face Value, then investors can 
buy the Debt directly from the company at a Discount or Premium.  
This means what it sounds like: if there’s a 5% Discount on a $100 Debt issuance, then investors 
can buy it for $95 rather than $100.  
But if the coupon rate is 5%, those investors will still earn 5% * $100 = $5 in interest per year.  
This initial Discount is called Original Issue Discount (OID) , and the accounting treatment is 
similar to the one for Issuance Fees: deduct the OID from Face Va lue to get the Book Value of 
Debt and amortize the OID until the Debt’s maturity.  
If there’s a principal repayment or other, early repayment, accelerate the amortization based 
on the proportion of principal repaid.  
Companies can also issue Debt with an Original Issue Premium (OIP) , but that is far less 
common, so we’re not going to cover it here (if we did, the signs of everything would be 
reversed – the OIP Amortization would be “positive Interest” and the Losses wo uld be Gains).  
First, let’s look at OID without  Debt Principal Repayments.  
For simplicity, we’ll ignore the Issuance Fees in this first example:  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
On the Income Statement , the Amortization of OID also counts as Interest Expense, and it’s a 
non-cash add -back on the Cash Flow Statement.  
If there are Debt Principal Repayments before maturity, then these formulas change  as follows:  
• Amortization of OID:   = –MIN(OID Beginning Balance  This Year , OID Beginning Balance 
This Year / Remaining Year s Until Maturity)  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Loss on Unamortized OID on Repayment:  = OID Balance After Amortization This Year * 
Percentage of Beginning Debt Principal This Year Repaid  This Year  
Just like the Loss on Debt Extinguishment for the Issuance Fees, the Loss on Unamortized OID 
on Repayment here represents the acceleration  of Amortization – but for a different line item.  
You can also wrap these formulas in IFERROR to handle cases such as  repayment of 100% of the 
principal before maturity.  
Here’s how it works with 20% principal repayments each year, ignoring Issuance Fees:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Finally, if we now incorporate the Issuance Fees, we can modify the formulas so that they 
match the ones for OID above:  
• Amortization of Issuance Fees : = –MIN( Issuance Fee Beginning Balance This Year, 
Issuance Fee  Beginning Balance This Year / Remaining Year s Until Maturity)  
 
• Loss on Debt Extinguishment : = Issuance Fee  Balance After Amortization This Year * 
Percentage of Beginning Debt Principal This Year Repaid  This Year  
Here’s what it looks like with a 3% Issuance Fee and more “random” Principal Repayments:  
 
When the Debt is finally repaid in Year 5, EVER YTHING – the OID Balance, Issuance Fee 
Balance, Face Value, and Book Value – reach es $0. 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here’s what happens on the other financial statements in this scenario:  
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, the OID and Issuance Fees both appear as outflows in Cash Flow 
from Financing because the company receiv es less in cash proceeds as a result of these items : 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
In terms of Book vs. Cash Taxes , it’s unclear whether or not these items affect anything, and it 
may be region -specific.  
However, these Amortization and Loss items tend to be so small that the tax impact is also 
small, which is why we ignored it here.  
If you wanted to model this in, you could include the standard Tax Schedule and assume that 
the Amortization of OID and Issua nce Fees and Losses on Debt Extinguishment are not 
deductible for Cash -Tax purposes (which may or may not be true, depending on the region).  
Return to Top . 
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 3: Convertible Bond Accounting  
In addition to "standard" Debt, such as bonds that companies issue to investors and promise to 
pay interest on, companies  can also issue Convertible Bonds  that may be "converted" into 
Common Shares if the company's Share Price exceeds a certain level  (the "Conversion Price").  
In exchange for this conversion option, investors accept lower coupon rates . So, a company 
might be able to pay 0.5% or 1.0% on  a Con vertible Bond if it would normally pay 4.0% or 5.0% 
on a traditional bond.  
Convertible Bonds  save companies money upfront by reducing their cash interest expense, but 
they can "cost" more if  they convert into Equity later on . 
For investors , Convertible Bonds are "hedged equity"  – if the company does well, they receive 
shares in the company. And if it doesn't, at least they  receive back their principal  upon 
maturity.  
The accounting for Convertible Bonds is tricky, so we’re going to focus on the fundamentals 
here rather than covering every nuance and special case:  
Step 1: Initial Convertible Bond Issuance  
Under IFRS, the Convertible Bond is split into Liability and Equity components.  Under U.S. 
GAAP, this happens only if there’s a “cash -settlement option,” but that option usually exists.  
So, we will simplify and assume that this same split happens under both accounting systems.  
To estimate the Market Value of the Liability component, take the Present Value of the Future 
Interest Payments and Future Principal Repayment, using a Discount Rate equal  to the coupon 
rate on equivalent, non-convertible debt. 
Convertible Bonds rarely, if ever, allow for "partial ear ly repayment"  – 100% is due at maturity, 
the company repays 100% early,  or investors convert 100% of the bond into shares early.  
But you won’t see terms such as 20% principal repayment each year  over 4 years , so we ignore 
that case here.  
Once you have the Liability component, the Equity component equals the Face Value of 
Convertible Bond  minus Market Value of Liability Component : 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Book Value of Debt  equals the Face Value of $100 .0 minus the $15.6 Market Value of the 
Equity Component  minus the $3 .0 in Issuance Fees, so it’s initially $81.4.  
Step 2: Handling Maturities and Conversions  
With Convertible Bonds, there are two main possibilities:  
1) They mature when they’re supposed to (Year #5 here), and the company must repay the 
full principal at that time.  
 
2) Or, they convert into Common Shares on or before that maturity date.  
Sometimes, the company might also be able to repay the entire Convertible Bond early, but 
we’re ignoring that case because the accounting is even more compli cated/confusing.  
The “Debt Conversions” formula in the schedule for the Face Value handles the conversion 
case:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• Debt Conversions:  =IF(Current Year = Conversion Year, –MIN(Beginning Face Value This 
Year, Initial Face Value When Issued), 0)  
Using the minimum here ensures that if the bond matures before  the conversion date, “Debt 
Conversions” shows a 0 – instead of incorrectly showing a negative $100.  
The Debt Principal Maturities formula is simpler:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This formula takes the Repayment Percentage (either 0% or 100%), multiplies it by the 
remaining Face Value this year (after any conversions), and then flips the sign to make it 
negative.  
This formula means that if there’s both a conversion and a maturity in the same year, we 
“prioritize” the conversion and assume it happens before the maturity.  
Issuance Fees  work the same way for Convertible Bonds  – there’s straight -line amortiza tion 
until maturity, and there’s accelerated amortization  if there's an early repayment , maturity, or 
conversion : 
 
Step 3: Amortization of the Debt Discount  
You could use the straight -line method to amortize the Debt Discount ( which initially equals the 
“Equity Component” calculated in Step 1).  
However, companies often use the effective interest  rate method  for Debt issuances with large 
discounts : 
• Amortization of Debt Discount  = –(Beginning Book Value of Debt This Year + Beginning 
Issuance Fee Balance This Year) * Coupon Rate on Equivalent, Non -Convertible Debt – 
Cash Interest Expense This Year)  
This formula makes the Amortization higher each year as the Convertible Bond “approaches” a 
traditional bond:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The “Remaining Unamortized Discount” part is still handled the same way: accelerate the 
Amortization of the remaining Discount if there’s a conve rsion into shares.  
Step 4: Linking the Statements  
When linking this schedule to the rest of the financial statements:  
• The Cash Interest Expense , Amortization , and the Loss es on Debt Extinguishment  all 
appear on the Income Statement  and reduce  Pre-Tax Income and Net Income.  
 
• The non-cash components  (the Amortization and Loss  lines ) are added back on the Cash 
Flow Statement.  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• If there’s a conversion into shares, the “Remaining Unamortized Discount ” does NOT  
appear on the Income Statement.  
 
• The Equity Component  of the Convertible Bond never changes until there’s a 
conversion , in which case it goes to $0.  If the Convertible Bond matures without 
conversion, the Equity Component may also remain the same (though it’s also 
acceptable to reduce it to $0 in that case).  
 
• If there’s a conversion, the Book Value of the Convertible Bond after  Amortization and 
Losses on Debt Extinguishment in the year and the Equity Component both get 
“transferred” into Common Shareholders’ Equity.  
 
This step keeps the Balance Sheet in balance because the separate Liability and Equity 
components go to $0, and Common Shareholders’ Equity increases by their sum.  
Here’s what the Cash Flow Statement  looks like with a Year 1 issuance and Year 3 conversion:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
And here’s the Balance Sheet:  
 
Summary of Convertible Bond Accounting  
When a Convertible Bond is issued, it's split into Debt  and Equity  components. The Equity 
Component stays the same until  conversion  (or maturity, though the treatment her varies).  
The Debt Component  keeps increasing due to the Amortization of the Debt Discount  (and the 
Amortization of the Issuance Fees) , and it reaches the Face Value if the bond matures  without 
being converted . 
If the bond is converted into common shares , the Debt Component and Equity Component are 
both “transferred” into Common Shareholders’ Equity because this capital is now considered 
100% Equity, not Debt or “hybrid capital.”  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We did not look at changes in the share count  here, but if there’s a conversio n, the company’s 
common shares outstanding increase, and the Interest Expense go es to $0. 
The number of common shares created depends on the terms of the Convertible Bond, but it’s 
equal to approximately Face Value / Conversion Price.  
So, if the company’s Share Price reaches the Conversion Price, the Face Value of the Convertible 
Bond is $100 million, and the Conversion Price is $50.00, then $100 million / $50.00 = 2 million 
new shares will be created.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 4: Types of Debt, PIK Interest, and Debt Schedules in Real Life  
So far, we’ve been lumping  all “Debt” or “Bonds” in the same category and assuming a fixed 
coupon rate with principal repayments over time, or “bullet maturity” (i.e., the entire balance 
must be repaid on one date in the future).  
In reality, however, there are many types of Debt; t he two main categories are “Secured” and 
“Unsecured” Debt.  
Secured means it's backed by collateral, and Unsecured means it’s backed by nothing.  
“Backed by collateral” means that if the company goes bankrupt, and it cannot repay the Debt, 
lenders can seize some of its assets and sell them to recover some money.  
Within these two major categories, there are also different types of Debt; the main 
characteristics include:  
• Coupon Rate (or “Interest Rate”):  Is it “fixed” (e.g., 10% or 5%) or “floating” (e.g., Fed 
Funds Rate + 2.0% or Other Benchmark + 5.0%)? Is it higher or lower than rates on other 
types of Debt?  
 
• Form of Interest:  Does the company pay it in cash, or does interest accrue to the 
principal (“Paid -in-Kind” or PIK Interest)?  
 
• Tenor:  For how long is the Debt outstanding? Five years? Ten years? Something in 
between?  
 
• Amortization:  What percentage of the Debt principal must the company repay each 
year? Or does it not repay anything until maturity?  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• Prepayments:  If a company has extra cash, can it repay some of its outstanding Debt 
before maturity? Or is it not allowed?  Are there penalty fees?  
 
• Investors:  Who are the typical buyers for this type of Debt? Traditional banks or riskier 
entities such as hedge funds, merchant banks, and mezzanine funds?  
 
• Seniority:  In the case of a bankruptcy, who gets paid first? What are th e chances of the 
investors in this tranche of Debt recovering their principal?  
 
• Call Protection:  Is the company prohibited from repaying the full Debt principal for 
some  time? Is there a penalty fee  (a “call premium”)  for doing so?  
 
• Covenants:  Does the company have to comply with certain financial ratios (e.g., Debt / 
EBITDA must stay below 5x), known as “maintenance covenants,” or does it have to 
comply with “incurrence covenants,” which prohibit certain  actions ? 
Here’s a summary:  
 
You know how to model many of these items on the financial statements already, such as the 
Amortization and Prepayment features (Call Protection and Maintenance Covenants will be 
covered the LBO and Debt/Equity guides).  
But one new feature here  is Paid -in-Kind  (PIK)  Interest , also known as Accrued Interest . Debt Type : Revolver  Term Loan A  Term Loan B  Senior Notes  Subordinated 
Notes  Mezzanine  
Interest Rate:  Lowest  Low Higher  Higher  Higher  Highest  
Floating / Fixed?  Floating  Fixed  
Cash Interest?  Yes Cash / PIK  
Tenor:  3-5 years  4-6 years  4-8 years  7-10 years  8-10 years  8-12 years  
Amortization:  None  Straight Line  Minimal  Bullet  
Prepayment?  Yes No 
Investors:  Conservative Banks  HFs, Merchant Banks, Mezzanine Funds  
Seniority : Senior Secured  Senior 
Unsecured  Senior 
Subordinated  Equity  
Secured?  Yes Sometimes  No 
Call Protection?  No Sometimes  Yes 
Covenants:  Maintenance  Incurrence  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In real life, student loans work like this:  you have no income while in school, so the interest 
accrues to the  loan principal . 
So, the loan principal increases each year, which increases the interest you pay each year.  
PIK Interest is common on the riskiest, highest -interest -rate forms of Debt, suc h as Mezzanine.  
Mechanics of PIK Interest  
If the Interest is Paid -in-Kind , it increases both the Face Value and the Book Value of Debt in 
each period.  
You need to be careful with Debt Repayments & Maturities  when calculating the Face Value of 
Debt – if there’s PIK Interest, and it’s the maturity year, then you must repay (Beginning Face 
Value + PIK Interest  This Year ): 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
PIK Interest still appears with in Interest Expense  on the Income Statement and reduces Pre-Tax 
Income and Net Income , and it ’s added back as a non -cash expense  on the Cash Flow 
Statement.  
This CFS add -back then links to Debt on the Balance Sheet, which increases each year until 
maturity:  
 
 
Debt Schedules in Real Life: Toro and Atlassian  
In real life, you do not always follow all the accounting rules for the treatment of Debt in this 
section and the previous ones.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Many of these rules make a tiny difference  on the financial statements, so you often simplify 
and skip items like the Debt Issuance Fees and the related Amortization and Loss line items.  
You can also simplify the formulas by considering only certain cases.  
For example, with Convertible Bonds, you could skip the case where there’s a c onversion 
before maturity or early repayment and just focus on what happens at maturity.  
And you could make the Amortization of the Debt Discount much simpler by using the straight -
line method rather than the effective  interest  rate method.  
Below is an exa mple of a Convertible Bond schedule for Atlassian, where we allow only a full 
principal repayment upon maturity  (though we do use the effective  interest  rate method for 
the Amortization of the Debt Discount ): 
 
Here’s another example for Toro, which has traditional Debt , but which keeps  issuing new Debt  
to fund its business each year.  
That means that the company must deduct Issuance Fees each year and then amortize those 
fees over time.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
25 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The “deduction” part is easy (Issuance Fee % * Debt Issued), but the Amortization line item 
needs to be adjusted each year as more Debt is issued.  
We use the following approach to do it:  
 
 
This approach is not robust because after 10 years, the Amortization of Issuance Fees for 
Debt issued 10 years ago should go to $0! 
This model only contains 5 years, though, so we do not handle this case where the Amortization 
decreases . 
If we had to project 20 -30 years into the future, we would have to handle that case , and we’d 
likely create a separate Amortization schedule to track the total number properly.  
However, none of that is necessary for a quick/simple model that covers only a few years.  
You can always make Debt schedules more complex, but the added complexity is rarely  
worth while if you’re building a quick  3-statement or cash -flow model.  
Return to Top . 
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
26 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 5: Equity Method of Accounting (Equity Investments ) 
When a Parent Company (Parent Co.) owns a minority stake  in another company  (Sub Co.) , 
such as 20% or 40% of its common shares outstanding, the Parent Co. must use the equity 
method of accounting  to record its stake  on the financial statements.  
Technically, companies use this method when they have “significant influence” over another 
company, but NOT control of that other company . 
In practical terms, that translates to ownership stakes between 20% and 50%, though some 
companies also use the equity method for ownership stakes  below 20%.  
If the Parent Co. owns very little  of Sub Co., such as 1% of the shares, it won’t use the equity 
method because that stake will count as a normal security on the Balance Sheet . 
Above 50% own ership, Parent Co. controls Sub Co. , so consolidation accounting applies.  
The main idea  of the equity method is that Parent Co. records its Ownership Percentage * Sub 
Co.’s Net Income on its Income Statement under “Equity Investment Earnings ,” or a similar 
name , but nothing else from Sub Co.  – all the items above it on the IS are only the Parent’s.  
Then , Parent Co. reverse s that line item on its Cash Flow Statement and record s Ownership 
Percentage * Sub Co.’s Dividends as a positive on its CFS . 
Both these Cash Flow Statement line items then link into Equity Investments on the Assets side 
of the Balance Sheet. Here’s a simple example of the Income Statement:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
27 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
To demonstrate the treatment on the full financial statements, we’ll start with a simple  
example of a Parent Co. with $400 million in revenue, growing to $600 million in Year 5.  
It’s about 10x the size of Sub Co., which has $40 million in revenue growing to $60 million in the 
same period.  
We’ll assume that Parent Co. acquires a 30%  stake in Sub Co. when Sub Co.’s Market Cap is 
$100 million, at the end of Year 2, and that it uses 50% Cash and 50% Debt to do th e deal.  
Here’s what the Income Statement looks like:  
 
If the Market Cap of the Associate Company (Sub Co.) changes, that does  not appear on the 
Income Statement unless Parent Co. sells some of its stake based on that new Market Cap . 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
28 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In other words, Unrealized Gains and Losses  on Equity Investments do not appear on the 
financial statements – only Realized Gains and Losses (see the next section ). 
Parent Co.’s Cash Flow Statement looks like this:  
 
On the Balance Sheet, the initial Purchase of Equity Investments at the end of Year 2 creates 
the “Equity Investments” line item on the Assets side.  
This line item is also called  “Associate Companies” or “Associates ” in some regions.  
After it’s created, it increases by the Equity Investment Earnings and decreases by Dividends 
from Eq uity Investments : 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
29 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The rationale for this treatment is that if Parent Co. does NOT  control Sub Co., then it does not 
“get” Sub Co.’s Net Income in cash each year.  
It owns less than 50% of the company, so it can’t walk over to Sub Co. and say, “Hey! Please 
give us all your Net Income right now.  Forget about your other shareholders. ” 
Therefore, Earnings from Equity Investments are reversed on the CFS, which means they ’re 
subtracted if they ’re positive on the IS.  
Parent Co. receives in cash only Sub Co.’s Dividends  * its Ownership Percentage . 
If Parent Co. changes  its ownership in Sub Co., the accounting gets more complicated.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
30 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Before explaining the rules, we’ll impose a significant constraint:  Parent Co. can own between 
0% and 49% of Sub Co., but no more than that.  
If Parent Co. moves into a control position (>= 50% ownership), consolidation accounting in the 
next section  applies.  
To make the model support changes in the ownership stake, we need Sub C o.’s Market Cap and 
the new Ownership Percentage in each year (assuming end -of-year changes only):  
 
The easy part  is determining the Percentage Change in Equity Investments and the Change in 
the Equity Investment Dollar Amount.  
The Percentage Change is a  simple subtraction, while the change in the Equity Investment 
Dollar Amount is Percentage Change in Period * Market Cap of Associate Company in Period.  
If the Parent Co. is increasing  its stake, we can stop there and record this as a cash outflow on 
the C FS that links into the Equity Investments line item on the BS.  
But if Parent Co.’s stake in Sub Co. decreases , that means it has sold some of its stake, which 
means there will almost always be a Realized Gain or Loss.  
To calculate this Realized Gain or Loss, we need the Cost Basis right before the change takes 
place , as well as the market value at which the stake was sold.  
• Cost Basis = Equity Investments in Previous Period – Equity Investment Earnings This 
Period  – Dividends from Equity Investments This Period  
Because of the signs of these items on the CFS, we are adding  Equity Investment Earnings and 
subtracting  Dividends from Equity Investments.  
To calculate the Gain or Loss, we use this formula:  
• Realized Gain or Loss  = IF(Percentage Change is Negative, (Sub Co. Market Cap * 
Previous Ownership Percentage – Cost Basis) * –Percentage Change / Previous 
Ownership Percentage, 0)  
Here it is in Excel:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
31 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The logic in this formula is as follows:  
First, we cannot possibly have a Gain or Loss if the Ownership Percentage has increased . So, if 
the Percentage Change is >= 0, we set the Gain or Loss to 0.  
The next part is easiest to understand with a specific example.  
Let’s say the Sub Co. Market Cap is $150, the Previous Ownership is 30%, the Cost Basis is $30, 
and the New Ownership is 15% . 
Therefore, in this formula:  
(Sub Co. Market Cap * Previous Ownership Percentage – Cost Basis) * –Percentage Change / 
Previous Ownership Percentage  
Sub Co. Market Cap * Previous Ownership Percentage  = $150 * 30% = $45.  
The Cost Basis is $30, so the Total Gain or Loss is $45 – $30 = $15 . 
However, Parent Co. is not selling its entire  stake in Sub Co.! It’s moving from 30% ownership 
to 15% ownership . 
Therefore, we need to adjust this Total Gain or Loss with the last part: Percentage Change / 
Previous Ownership Percentage . 
In this case, it’s equal to 15% / 30% = 50%, so the Gain is $15 * 50% = $7.5 instead.  
The negative sign is in front because the Perc entage Change will be negative when the 
ownership decreases, so we flip it to a positive with that sign.  
To link the statements, we put the se Realized Gains and Losses on the Income Statement : 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
32 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, we reverse the Realized Gains or Losses in Cash Flow from 
Operations, record the entire Change in Equity Investment  Dollar Amount in Cash Flow from 
Investing, and record Debt or Stock issuances for additional purchases in Cash Fl ow from 
Financing . 
If there’s a decrease in ownership, the Realized Gain or Loss + Change in Equity Investment  
Dollar Amount correspond to the change in the Balance Sheet line item : 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
33 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
On the Balance Sheet, Equity Investment s change  to reflect these ownership changes:  
 
Return to Top . 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
34 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Key Rule # 6: Consolidation Accounting (Noncontrolling Interests)  
When a Parent Company (Parent Co.) owns 50% or more of another company, thereby 
controlling  it, it must use consolidation accounting  to record this stake.  
In this scenario, the financial statements of the Parent Co. and Sub Co. are consolidated 100% , 
and there are small adjustments for Sub Co.’s Net Income and Dividends.  
On the Income Statement, there ’s a deduction for (1  – Ownership Percentage) * Sub Co.’s  Net 
Income because  a portion of Sub Co.’s Net Income is NOT  attributable to Parent Co.:  
 
We then reverse thi s line item  on the Cash Flow Statement because when Parent Co. controls 
Sub Co. , it does  get Sub Co.’s Net Income in cash.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
35 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
And on the CFS, we combine the Dividends of Parent  Co. and Sub Co. , but we also add back Sub 
Co.’s Dividends * Ownership Percentage because those Dividends go to the Parent . 
To understand the full process of consolidation from beginning to end , let’s start by assuming 
that P arent Co. already owns 30% of Sub Co.  
Therefore, Parent Co. has an Equity Investment  on its Balance Sheet that represents this 30% 
stake in Sub Co.  
If Parent Co. wants to increase its stake to 70%, we need to make the calculations required for a 
full Balance Sheet combination first.  
In this case – acquiring a controlling stake  in another company – Goodwill will be created , along 
with Other Intangible Assets, Asset Write -Ups, Deferred Tax Liabilities, etc.  
Another issue is that Parent Co. most likely acquired its existing 30% stake in Sub Co. at a 
different price than Sub Co.’s current Market Cap . 
For example, the Parent here purchased this 30% stake in Sub Co. when Sub Co.’s Market Cap 
was $50, but not it plans to acquire an additional 40% when Sub Co.’s Market Cap is $100 . 
When this happens, we need to calculate the Premium or Discount to the Book Value of the 
Existing Minori ty Stake  on the Balance Sheet:  
 
If you’re wondering why the Sub Co. Equity Investment is $16 rather than $15, Sub Co.’s Net 
Income and Dividends have changed the Equity Investment’s value slightly.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
36 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We need this Premium or Discount because the Combined Balance Sheet will not balance 
without this adjustment.  
The “Purchase Price for Additional Stake” is straightforward: (70% – 30%) * $100 = $40.  
Next, we calculate Goodwill based on  100% of Sub Co.’s Equity – even though the Parent will 
own only 70% of the company:  
 
Then, on the Balance Sheet, we add all of Sub Co.’s Assets and Liabilities and leave out its 
Common Shareholders’ Equity, which is written down in the deal.  
Sub Co. no longer exists as an independent entity, so its “Equity” is no long er reported as a 
separate line item.  
We also add the new Goodwill, eliminate the old Equity Investment s, deduct the Cash used to 
fund the deal, and add any Debt and Common Stock issued to fund it.  
And we add a Noncontrolling Interest  equal to (1 – New Ownership Percentage) * Sub Co.’s 
Market Cap on the L&E side within Equity.  
Within Equity, we also record the Premium or Discount to the Book Value of the old Equity 
Investment , which was calculated above . 
Remember that on the Assets side, “Debit” means “Add” and “Credit” means “Subtract ”; it’s 
the opposite on the L&E side:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
37 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
In Step 2 of this process, we’ll assume that Parent Co.’s ownership in Sub Co. remains at 70% in 
Years 2 – 4. 
So, we combine the financial statements 100% and make a few adjustments to Net Income and 
Dividends:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
38 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Cash Flow Statement is a bit trickier because we need to modify a few items:  
• Dividends:  Technically, we should combine 100% of Parent Co.’s and 100% of Sub Co.’s 
Dividends in Cas h Flow from Financing. However, for modeling purposes, it’s easier to 
make these two separate line items because they’ll link to separate items on the Balance 
Sheet . 
 
• Equity Investment Earnings and Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests:  
These line items from the Income Statement must be reversed on the Cash Flow 
Statement.  
 
• Dividends Received from Partially Owned Companies:  These are positive cash inflows 
typically listed in Cash Flow from Operations, and they’re based on Owner ship 
Percentage in Sub Co. * Sub Co.’s Dividends.  This formula is the same regardless of 
whether the Parent owns a majority or minority stake in Sub Co.  
 
• Cash:  Remember that the “Beginning Cash” in the first post -transaction year must link 
to the Cash number immediately after the deal closes  in the “Post -Deal” column ! 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
39 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
If you’re wondering about the rationale  for these adjustments, when Parent Co. controls  Sub 
Co., the Cash balances are also combined.  
Therefore, Parent Co. “gets” all the Net Income generated by Sub Co., so in cash terms , 
subtracting (1 – Ownership Percentage) * Sub Co.’s Net Income is not accu rate. That’s why we  
reverse this part.  
Then, under “Common Dividends Paid,” we deduct 100% of both compan ies’ Dividends … but 
70% of Sub Co.’s Dividends go to the Parent ! 
So, in cash terms, Parent Co. is not actually “losing” 100% of Sub Co.’s Dividends.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
40 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Therefore, we record Ownership Percentage * Sub Co.’s Dividends for “Dividends Rec’d from 
Partially Owned Co’s ” in Cash Flow from Operations.  
The Combined Balance Sheet is straightforward; most of the Assets and Liabilities are simple 
combinations of Parent Co. and Sub Co.  line items , and items like Cash  flow in from the Cash 
Flow Statement:  
 
The Liabilities & Equity side is more complicated because of the links for Common Shareholders’ 
Equity and Noncontrolling Interests:  
• Common Shareholders’ Equity : Old CSE + Net Income to Parent + Parent Co. Dividends 
+ Stock Issuances + Stock Repurchases . 
 
• Noncontrolling Interests:  Old NCI + Net Income to NCI + Dividends Rec’d from Partially 
Owned Co’s + Sub Co. Dividends . We also need to check the Ownership Percentage and 
link in “Dividends Rec’d from Partially Owned Co’s” only  if the Parent currently owns  
50% or more of Sub Co.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
41 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The “+” signs here refer to the Excel formulas, not the actual signs . Parent Co. Dividends and 
Sub Co. Dividends are negative, so we’re subtracting them in these formulas.  
 
The rationale is that we deduct only the portion of Sub Co. ’s Dividends that go to the minority 
shareholders in Sub Co.  in the NCI line item.  
The Noncontrolling Interest acts as a “mini -Shareholders’ Equity” for the minority shareholders  
in Sub Co.  
So, their Net Income is added, and their  Dividen ds are subtracted.  
In Step 3 , we’ll look at the deconsolidation process:  what happens when Parent Co. sells part of 
its stake in Sub Co. and moves back to ownership below 50%.  
In this step, the Noncontrolling Interest is removed, and a new Equity Investment line item is 
created.  
The biggest challenge is determining the Gain or Loss  on this transa ction.  
It’s more complicated than calculating Gains or Losses on Equity Investments because of the 
Balance Sheet changes, the new Goodwill, and the combined financial statements . 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
42 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We start by assuming a Market Cap (Equity Value) f or the Sub Co. when this ownership change 
takes place at the end of Year 4.  
Based on that and the new Ownership Percentage, we can calculate the Market Value of the 
Stake Sold and the value of the new Equity Investment. Then:  
• Gain or Loss on Stake Sold  = Market Value of Stake Sold + Market Value of New Equity 
Investment + Book Value of NCI Being Removed  – Net Assets of Sub Co., Including 
Goodwill Created in Previous Deal  
Here’s what it looks like in Excel:  
 
We use the Book Value of Noncontrolling Interests  (cell J85) rather than the Market Value 
because when Parent Co. sells some of its stake , it doesn’t get the Market Value for all 100%  
of Sub Co. ! 
Parent Co. never “owned” that Noncontrolling Interest, so it doesn’t make sense to use its 
Market Value in this calculation.  
The company must also pay taxes on this Gain (or get a tax benefit if there’s a Loss), so we 
multiply by (1 – Tax Rate) to calculate  the After -Tax Gain or Loss.  
Total Cash Proceeds  are based on (Market Value of Stake Sold  – Gain or Loss) + After -Tax Gain 
or Loss . 
That’s because Parent Co. pays  taxes only on the Gain . If it just recovers its Cost Basis, that is 
not taxed.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
43 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
It’s similar to individuals buying and selling stocks: they pay taxes only if they sell higher and 
realize a Gain – if they buy a stock for $10.00 and sell it for $10.00, there are no taxes.  
The next part of this process is the deconsolidation of the Balance Sheet . 
To do this, we remove all of Sub Co.’s Assets and Liabilities, including its Cash.  These removals 
will be Credits on the Assets side and Debits on the L&E side.  
Also, we remove the Goodwill created in the majority -stake acquisition and the Noncontrolling 
Interest created in the same transaction . 
We show the Cash Received as an increase to Cash, we record the n ew Equity Investment line 
item, and we put the After -Tax Gain or Loss in Common Shareholders’ Equity.  
This last bit is a “shortcut” – normally, Realized Gains and Losses show up on the Income 
Statement  and flow into CSE via their impact on Net Income.  
But we want the Balance Sheet to balance immediately after the deal closes , so we set it up this 
way:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
44 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Next, we have to complete the financial statements in Year 5, after the deconsolidation takes 
place and Parent Co. owns only 40% of Sub Co. : 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
45 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The same thing happens on the Cash Flow Statement, which is mostly Parent Co.’s numbers 
with a few adjustments for the Equity Investment Earnings  and the Dividend lines:  
 
Finally, on the Balance Sheet, many items come directly from the Parent’s Balance Sheet (such 
as the Working Capital line items and Operating Lease Assets and Liabilities).  
The rest use formulas similar to the ones in Years 2  – 4. 
Cash comes from the bottom of the CFS, and the links for Net PP&E, Equity Investments, 
Noncontrolling Interests , Debt, etc., are all the same : 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
46 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
The most difficult part of this entire process is the deconsolidation  in this last step , but in real 
life, you rarely show it in financial models  (unless you’re modeling a spin -off).  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
47 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Most models assume that a company’s ownership stakes in other companies stay about the 
same over time, so the Net Income and Dividend links are the most important points.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 7: Stock -Based Compensation and Excess Tax Benefits  
Normally in models, we assume that Stock -Based Compensation is not Cash -Tax Deductible : it 
appears as an Income Statement expense but does not reduce the company’s Cash Taxes.  
We model this as a change in Deferred Taxes on the Cash Flow Statement.  
But this treatment is only for the initial  grant of stock options, shares, or RSUs to employees.  
When the employees finally receive their shares or exercise their options, the accounting gets 
more compli cated – and it differs under U.S. GAAP and IFRS.  
To make things even worse, the rules changed in 2017 under U.S. GAAP (ASC 718) , which made 
the treatment under both accounting systems even more different.  
In real -life models, we almost always ignore this p art of the Stock -Based Compensation cycle 
because the timing is unpredictable, and it’s difficult to forecast when employees will 
exercise their options.  
However, it’s still useful to understand these accounting rules because they also explain some 
of the strange behavior that you’ve probably seen on companies’ Income Statements:  
• How can Net Income exceed Pre -Tax Income?  
 
• How can Book Income Taxes be positive  on the Income Statement rather than negative?  
To explain the treatment under U.S. GAAP, we’ll take a simple example where $20 of SBC is 
issued in Year 1 and then increases in value from Year 2 through Year 5.  
The employees then exercise their options in Year 5 and receive their shares, at which point the 
company can take the deduction and reduce its Cash Taxes.  
But since the value of the SBC has increased  by Year 5, the company also gets an “Excess Tax 
Benefit”  and can save even more in taxes.  
Here’s the basic schedule for the $20 of SBC, which rises in value to $80 by Year 5:  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
48 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Here’s the Tax Schedule for this scenario:  
 
 
This concept is straightforward: the company can’t take the tax deduction in Year 1, but it can 
use it in Year 5 when the employees exercise their options, so it is deferred until then.  
However, since the SBC’s value has increased to $80 by Year 5, we also need to record the 
“Excess Tax Benefits” from it.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
49 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Under the accounting rules that we re put in place in 2017, this shows up as “Excess Tax 
Benefits” or “Excess Tax Deficiencies” on the Income Statement as a direct reduction or 
addition to Income Taxes:  
 
Yes, this treatment creates some strange outcomes. Here, for example, Net Income exceeds 
Pre-Tax Income because “Income Taxes” becomes a positive $3.8.  
In the old method (pre -2017), companies recorded this Excess Tax Benefit only on the Cash 
Flow Statement , and it linked to Common Shareholders’ Equity on the Balance Sheet.  
Linking the statements with this new treatment is straightforward: SBC is a non -cash add -back 
on the CFS, as always, and the Deferred Tax adjustment will be negative in Year 1 and positiv e 
in Year 5.  
The Net DTA on the Balance Sheet increases by $5 in Year 1 and decreases by $5 in Year 5:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
50 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
51 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The result  of this treatment is that if the company’s stock price has increased significantly, 
meaning that SBC granted in earlier years has also appreciated, then it will receive significant 
tax savings when employees exercise their options.  
On the other hand, if the SBC has decreased  in value, then the company pays more in taxes 
when employees get their shares.  
IFRS Treatment  
The main difference under IFRS is that the Deferred Tax Asset created by the initial Stock -Based 
Compensation is reval ued whenever the value of the SBC changes.  
That reflect s the changing value of the future Cash -Tax deductions when the SBC value changes.  
On the L&E side of the Balance Sheet, APIC within Common Shareholders’ Equity changes to 
balance this revaluation.  
Also, under IFRS, as soon as the SBC meets or exceeds its initial value, the company records 
“Tax Benefits” for it on the Income Statement.  
Finally, if the SBC’s value decreases , then it’s recorded as a “Tax Deficiency” on the Income 
Statement , equal to – Change in Value * Tax Rate. Here’s the schedule:  
 
The Tax Schedule under IFRS looks like this:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
52 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
The Income Statement does not change much with this treatment because only the initial Tax 
Benefits ($20 * 25% = $5) show up in Year 2, reducing the company’s Income Taxes:  
 
If the SBC’s value were decreasing, then we would have to record Tax Deficiencies that increase  
the tax burden in each year, making Net Income lower.  
Here are the other statements:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
53 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
54 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These treatments may seem completely different, but they’re not that far apart : under both 
accounting systems, the company realizes the full Cash-Tax benefits of SBC increasing in value 
only when employees exercise their options and/or receive their shares.  
Under U.S. GAAP, this benefit is a positive entry that offsets Income Taxes on the Income 
Statement ; under IFRS, it appears as a positive Deferred Tax adjustment on the Cash Flow 
Statement.  
The IFRS treatment is more complicated and requires more complex formulas, so we tend to 
follow the U.S. GAAP rules (or ignore this second step completely).  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 8: Unrealized Gains and Losses on Financial Investments  
When a company records a Realized Gain or Loss  because it bought a stock or bond  at one 
price and sold it at a different price, the accounting treatment is clear: record the Gain or Loss 
on the Income St atement . 
Then, reverse it on the CFS, show the total amount of proceeds received in Cash Flow from 
Investing, and link both these items to the corresponding Asset on the Balance Sheet.  
When there’s an Unrealized Gain or Loss , however, the accounting treatment gets more 
complex.  
“Unrealized” means that the market value of the stock or bond changes, but the company does 
not sell anything . 
There are three main ways to treat Unrealized Gains and Losses, and the most appropriate 
method depends o n how the Financial Investment is classified:  
• Trading Security or “Fair Value Through Profit & Loss” (FVPL):  Unrealized Gains and 
Losses appear directly on the Income Statement  but do not affect Cash Taxes, so the 
DTA or DTL changes and then reverses when the Gain or Loss is realized.  
 
• Available for Sale (AFS) or “Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income ” (FVOCI):  
Unrealized Gains and Losses flow into Accumulated Other Comprehensive I ncome 
(AOCI) within Common Shareholders’ Equity and affect the corresponding Asset on the 
other side. Nothing shows up on the Income Statement.  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
55 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
• Held to Maturity (HTM) or “Amortized Cost ”: Unrealized Gains and Losses are not 
recorded  anywhere. Instead, the company adjusts the Asset as it receives principal 
repayments (this treatment is only used for bonds).  
In 2018 – 2019, the rules for these security types changed under U.S. GAAP (ASU 2016 -01), 
but many people misinterpret these changes.  
The new rules did NOT “eliminate” the AFS and HTM categories; they only eliminated them 
for Equity Securities! The AFS and HTM categories still exist for Debt (bonds).  
So, small investments in other companies’ stock s are always put in the Trading or FVPL category 
now.  
But investments in bonds could go anywhere, and the classification depends on the company’s 
plans for those investments.  
If they plan to buy and sell them quickly for short -term profit, they’ll be placed in the Trading or 
FVPL category.  
If they plan to hold them to maturity and collect interest the whole time, they’ll be in the HTM 
or Amortized Cost category.  
And if the company doesn’t have a clear plan, it might put them in the AFS or FV OCI category. 
Here’s a summary:  
 
We covered  the last two categories – Equity Investments  and Noncontrolling Interests  – in 
previous sections, so we’ll focus on the first three categories here : 
Category #1: Trading or FVPL  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
56 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If a company owns $100 of Equity Securities, the market value of the Securities increases to 
$120, and the company does not sell anything, then it record s a $20 Gain on the Income 
Statement:  
 
The company’s Book Taxes increase by $5, but it does not pay anything extra in Cash Taxes 
since the Gain is unrealized.  
So, on the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is up by $15, the Gain is reversed for ($20), and 
there’s a n adjustment of +$5 for Deferred Income Taxes.  
Nothin g else changes, and Cash stays the same . 
Here’s the Cash Flow from Operations section and the Assets side of the Balance Sheet : 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
57 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
On the L&E side of the Balance Sheet, Common Shareholders’ Equity is up by $15 due to the 
increased Net Income, so both sides balance.  
The DTA here decreases because the company does not have to pay additional Cash Taxes right 
away.  
Once the company sells these Equity Securities, however, it will have to pay those owed Cash 
Taxes, so its Cash Taxes will exceed its Book Taxes by $5, and the Net DTA will increase to $100.  
This example uses Equity Securities, but the mechanics are the same for Debt Investments – the 
only difference is that the compan y also record s Interest Income from Debt Investments.  
Category #2: Available for Sale or FVOCI  
This classification is available only  for Debt Investments, i.e., bonds issued by companies and 
governments.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
58 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If a company owns bonds classified as AFS, and there’s an Unrealized Gain of $20, nothing 
changes on the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement . 
On the Balance Sheet, the corresponding Asset increases by $20, and AOCI within CSE on the 
L&E side also increases by $20:  
 
If the company sells these Debt Investments for $120, it will then pay the additional $5 in Cash 
Taxes.  
Category #3: Held to Maturity or Amortized Cost  
In this last category, Unrealized Gains and Losses make no impact on the financial statements . 
However, Realized  Gains and Losses still appear on the Income Statement, and amortization 
(e.g., the borrower repaying 10% of the Debt P rincipal each year) shows up on the Cash Flow 
Statement.  
Let’s say that a company owns $100 in Deb t Investments that are classified as HTM.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
59 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Over the year, the company receives $10 in principal repayments on these investments, so the 
Balance Sheet figure decreases to $90.  
At the end of the year, the company sells these Debt Investments for $110, recording a Realized 
Gain of $20.  
Here are the statements in this scenario:  
 
 
The Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement are as follows:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
60 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
61 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The intuition is that Cash increases by $115 due to the after -tax Gain of $15, the principal 
repayment of $10, and the repayment of the entire remaining Debt balance for $90.  
What Does This Topic Mean for Financial Models?  
Not much. We’re covering this topic only because there’s a small chance you might get 
interview questions about  it. 
In financial models, you almost always set Gains and Losses to 0 in future periods.  
Even if the company purchases or sells investments over time, you rarely assume any changes 
in the fair market value of th ese investments.  
This topic is important  mostly  for commercial banks and insurance firms because investing is a 
core business activity in these industries , and banks and insurance firms classify Interest Income 
and Div idends as “Revenue.”  
A commercial bank or insurance firm’s Common Shareholders’ Equity may be “propped up” by 
Unrealized Gains from AFS Securities recorded within AOCI . So, if you believe the Gains will 
disappear, you might have to adjust the company’s CSE.  
That matters because financial firms are required to keep certain amount s of CSE on their 
Balance Sheets at all times  (“regulatory capital”) ; if they go below a certain level , they cannot 
issue Dividends , and they may have to raise additional capital.  
But that’s a separate topic covered  in the industry -specific courses and guides.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 9: LIFO vs. FIFO vs. Average Weighted Cost for Inventory  
In the previous accounting lessons and guides, we assumed that a decrease in Inventory always 
corresponded to an increase in COGS.  
For example, if a company had purchased $100 of widgets, and then it sold those widgets for 
$200, we recorded $200 in Revenue and $100 in COGS and reduced Inventory by $100.  
For simple examples over short time frames, this assumption is fine.  
But over longer time frames, this method creates problems because : 
1) The company doesn’t necessarily purchase all the Inventory for the same price at the 
same time.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
62 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
2) The company might sell one “batch” of Inventory over different time frames, with some 
units purchased earlier and some purchased late r. 
 
3) And as this process takes place, the price of the Inventory might keep changing due to 
inflation, disinflation, or basic supply and demand.  
For example, maybe this company has ordered 100 units of Inventory over a year. Initially, each 
unit cost $10, but by the end of the year, the price had increased to $20 each.  
If the company sells 20 of these units on January 1 of the next year, what do es it record for Cost 
of Goods Sold on the Income Statement?  
If it records 20 * $10, using the cost of the ea rliest units purchased, then it’s using the FIFO 
(First In, First Out)  method.  
If it records  20 * $20, using the cost of the latest units purchased, then it’s using the LIFO (Last 
In, First Out)  method.  
With FIFO, the company records what it originally  cost to purchase these units; with LIFO, the 
company records the current price  of these units : 
 
There is another method as well, called Moving Average Weighted Cost , where the company 
keep s calculating the average unit cost in each period, based on the most  recent purchases, and 
then uses Most Recent Average Unit Cost * Units Sold to calculate COGS for each sale.  
This one takes more effort to set up because of the recalculation process, but here’s a quick 
example:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
63 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Under IFRS, only the FIFO and Average Weighted Cost methods are valid . 
(There are also slight variations on the Average Weighted Cost method, but they still use similar 
ideas, so we’re not discussing them here.)  
Under U.S. GAAP, all three methods are allowed , which means that some U.S. companies use 
LIFO – and that non -U.S. companies do not.  
Trade -Offs of the Methods  
Here’s what the partial financial statements look like, assuming rising Inventory costs over a 
year with a sale of 40 units delivered on January 1:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
64 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
If Inventory costs have been 
increasing , then:  
 
• LIFO:  COGS will be higher, 
Net Income will be lower, ending 
Inventory will be lower, and Cash 
Flow will be higher.  
 
• FIFO:  COGS will be lower, 
Net Income will be higher, ending 
Inventory will be higher, and Cash 
Flow will be lower.  
The intuition for the lower Ca sh 
Flow under FIFO is that the company 
pays higher taxes . 
COGS is lower , so Pre -Tax Income is 
higher, and Income Taxes are $50 
rather than $25 in this example  on 
the left.  
If Inventory costs have been decreasing , then:  
• LIFO:  COGS will be lower, Net Income will be higher, ending Inventory will be higher, 
and Cash Flow will be lower.  
 
• FIFO:  COGS will be higher, Net Income will be lower, ending Inventory will be lower, and 
Cash Flow will be higher.  
The Moving Average Weighted Cost method is in between these two in both cases . 
IFRS does not allow LIFO because they view it as “deceptive ,” especially if Inventory costs have 
changed significantly.  
As shown above, the LIFO method means that companies usually pay less in Income Taxes 
because Inventory costs in most industries tend to rise over time.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
65 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
So, the IASB views the LIFO method as a bit o f a “tax loophole,” or at least a deceptive 
presentation.  
The Significance of LIFO vs. FIFO vs. Average Weighted Cost in Financial Models  
In real life, you can’t “do” much to adjust companies’ financial statements when you run into 
this issue of different accounting methods for COGS and Inventory.  
Most companies do not disclose the data required to make the adjustments, such as the 
number of  units sold or the average price of Inventory purchased.  
But if you know that two companies are using different methods  for recording COGS, then you 
might assume a higher "error range" in your model or valuation.  
For example, instead of assuming that one c ompany “has higher margins” or higher metrics 
such as ROE or ROIC, you might set a higher threshold and say that the difference must be 
above X% to be meaningful.  
Return to Top . 
 
Key Rule # 10: Overview of Pension Accounting  
Pension accounting is confusing , arbitrary, and not that important in IB interviews.  
It helps to know the basics, especially if you work with companies in sectors like manufacturing 
where pension plans are still common, but the advanced details are unnecessary.  
Pensions  represent the promise of future payments  to employees for work they do today (and 
next year, and beyond).  
For example, a company might tell its employees, “ For each year you've worked at our 
company, we'll pay you $X per month in the future, after you retire."  
Pensions are similar to Stock -Based  Compensation in some ways, but with one big difference: 
companies must pay employees IN CASH  in the future!  
Also, the timing  and expense profile is more predictable since pensions are based on the 
number of years worked at the company,  the employee’s aver age salary during that time, and 
their retirement age . 
There are two basic types of plans: Defined -Contribution (DC)  and Defined -Benefit (DB)  ones, 
and DB ones are much more complicated.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
66 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Pensions matter because some plans directly affect the financial statements, and you’ll see 
pension -related line items on the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow Statement.  
Also, pension expenses can affect a company’s cash flow and, therefore, its valua tion.  
The Easy Case: Defined -Contribution (DC) Plans  
If a company offers a plan where employees 
set aside some of their salaries, invest the 
funds independently, and withdraw the 
money in retirement, the complexity around 
pensions goes away.  
Most likely, the company will offer a “match” 
for 25%, 50%, or 100% of what the 
employees contribute. That match shows up 
as an Operating Expense on the Income 
Statement , as shown on the right.  
This type of plan might create short -term 
Assets and Liabiliti es because of timing differences, but there will be no long -term Pension 
Assets or Liabilities because the employees are responsible for everything.  
How Defined -Benefit  (DB)  Pensions Are Recorded  on the Balance Sheet  
If a company promises specific  payments to employees in the future based on their current 
salari es and years  of work  at the company, the complexity increases dramatically.  
These  plan s are called Defined -Benefit  (DB) Pension s, and the company must record separate 
items on its financial statements to account for them.  
DB Pensions are rare among newer companies (e.g., Facebook), but they’re common among 
older/legacy companies in industries like retail and manufacturing (e.g., Ta rget).  
As an example of how this plan works , an employee who retires at age 65 might receive a 
monthly pension check of 1% * # of Years of Employment * Average Monthly Salary.  
If his average monthly salary was $ 10,000, and he worked for 20 years, that’s a monthly check 
of 1% * 20 * $ 10,000 = $ 2,000, or $ 24,000 per year.  
If another year passes, and his total employment term reaches 21 years, the monthly check 
increases to 1% * 21 * $ 10,000 = $ 2,100, or $ 25,200 per year.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
67 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
When a company creates a plan like this, it must set aside funds to pay for it in the future. 
These funds take the form of Pension Plan Assets  on the Balance Sheet.  
On the L&E side, the company must record a Projected Benefit Obligation (PBO)  or Pension 
Liability associated with the plan. This item represents the Present Value of expected future 
payments to employees.  
Taking Target as our example, here are the items that flow into its Pension Plan Asset (Years 2 
and 3 are historical, and Years 4 – 8 are projected):  
 
This line item is fairly intuitive: the company takes the funds it sets aside for future payments 
and invests them into equities, fixed income, alternative assets, etc.  
It attempts to earn a solid return on these assets (“Actual Return on Plan Assets”), and it also 
contribut es more of its own cash over time (“Employer Contributions”).  
Employees may also have to contribute something (“Participant Contributions”) to qualify for 
future payments.  
Finally, when the company mak es payments to retired employees, it sells some of these 
investments and distributes the cash proceeds to the employees (“Benefit Payments”).  
The Pension Liability  or Projected Benefit Obligation (PBO)  is more complicated, but here’s the 
basic flow : 
 
The Participant Contributions and Benefit Payments are the same as the lines above for the 
Pension Asset: they represent employee contributions and payments to employees.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
68 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These line items affect both  the Pension Asset and the Pension Liability because as employees 
contribute more, they’re also owed more in future payments , and Benefit Payments reduce 
both the company’s available funds and its future payouts.  
The Service Cost  here represents the additi onal cost accrued each year from employees staying 
at the company longer and receiving pay increases.  
Going back to the example above, where an employee retiring at age 65 receives a paycheck for 
1% * # of Years of Employment * Average Monthly Salary:  
• Cost After 20 Years:  1% * 20 * $10,000 = $2,000  per month, or $24,000 per year.  
• Cost After 21 Years: 1% * 21 * $10,000 = $2,100  per month, or $25,200 per year.  
The Service Cost  represents the aggregation  of this increase each year for all current employees  
who will receive pension  benefits  in the future.  
It is NOT  a cash expense because it just represents the accrual  of future payments owed to 
employees, but it is an operational expense.  
The Interest Cost  represents how the company moves closer to the payout of the full pension 
benefits each year, which increases the Present Value of the PBO.  
For example, consider a  future benefit payment to employees in Year 5. At a Discount Rate of 
5%, here’s how the Present Value of this future payment changes each year:  
 
So, the Service Cost and Interest Cost both increase  the Pension Liability as time passes.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
69 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The last remaining line item here, “Actuarial Gain / Loss,” represents adjustments for payments 
that are above or below expectations (e.g., if the terms of the plan change, or the company’s 
performance allows it to pa y more or less than expected).  
This item doesn’t necessarily follow a specific pattern, but sometimes it is similar to the Actual 
Return on Plan Assets.  
The Pension Expense on the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement  
The big idea  here is that returns on Pension Assets (i.e., Gains and Losses) are volatile, so 
companies attempt to “smooth them out” on the Income Statement.  
So, instead of recording the Actual Returns  – which doesn’t make sense because they’re 
unrealized – companies record the Expected Returns  based on a simple percentage assumption.  
Then, they amortize the difference  between Actual and Expected Returns on the IS. 
If the difference between Actual Returns and Expected Returns shrinks , this Amortization line 
item shrinks; if the difference grows , this Amortization line item also grows.  
While this practice makes some logical sense, it also makes the Income Statement numbers 
not AT ALL representative of the company’s cash expenses.  
Here’s Target’s Income Statement, with the components of the Pension Expense in different 
categories highlighted:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
70 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You already know the Service Cost and Interest Cost components from the Pension Liability 
explanation above.  
They’re both expenses  on the Income Statement because they increase the Present Value of 
future benefit payments to employees.  
The Expected Return and Amortization of Losses are what we just describe d above: the 
company attempting to “smooth out” Gains and Losses on Pension Assets over time.  
In this case, Actual Returns have been below Expected Returns (surprise, surprise), so the 
Amortization line item is negative.  
The line items toward the bottom – Amortization of Prior Service Costs and Settlement Charges 
– are related to changes in the terms of the pension plan.  
These items are very small and do not follow a specific pattern, so we do not pay much 
attention to them.  
On the Cash Flow Statem ent, the company adds back the entire Pension Expense from the 
Income Statement because it’s ~100% non -cash, and it records a cash outflow for the Employer 
Contributions:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
71 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Deferred Income Taxes here assume that the Income Statement Pension Expenses are not 
Cash -Tax Deductible, but that the Pension Contributions from the company are.  
Since the Pension Contributions exceed the IS Pension Expenses, this results in Cash -Tax savings 
and a positive adjustme nt for Deferred Income Taxes each year.  
However, tax treatments vary widely – especially in other countries  – so you can’t assume 
that these rules always apply.  
In some regions, it’s the reverse: IS Pension Expenses are Cash -Tax D eductible, but Employer 
Contributions are not.  
Or, in some cases, the Service Cost might be deductible, but the rest of the Pension Expense 
may not be.  
So, don’t take this as a universal rule; it’s just an example of the difference you might  see. 
How to Project These Pension Line Items  
The short answer is that you normally simplify  these line items and show only the Pension 
Service Cost  and Pension Financing Cost  on the Income Statement (see the next section).  
It’s not realistic to “project” something like Actual Return on Plan Assets or Actuarial Gain / Loss 
because  they fluctuate significantly.  
If you have a burning desire to project these line items, here’s the approach we us ed: 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
72 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Service Cost  trend s with Revenue because as the company grows, it will hire more 
employees, and it will owe pension payments  to more employees.  
We make the Interest Cost a percentage of the Pension Liability  roughly equal to the Discount 
Rate (~4.0% for Target) because the Pension Liability should increase  by Pension Liability * 
Discount Rate for each year that passes.  
The Expected Return is a percentage of the beginning Pension Asset s each year, and we’ve kept 
it in-line with the company’s historical assumptions of 6.0% to 6.5% annualized returns.  
The Actual Return on Plan Assets and the Actuarial Gain or Loss are  almost random,  so you 
might as well roll dice to pick them.  
The Amortization line item representing the difference between Expected and Actual Returns 
can change by that percentage difference each year.  
Items like Employer Contributions and Benefit Payments can be percentages of Revenue 
because, like the Service Cost, they grow as the company grows.  
Finally, the smaller items here, such as the Amortization of Prior Service Costs and the 
Settlement Costs, can be simple averages or held constant.  
Pensions on the Full Financial Statements  
In real life, we rarely project all these line items separately in financial models . 
Instead, we tend to focus on the following line items:  
• The Service Cost  on the Income Statement.  
 
• The Interest /Finance Cost  on the Income Statement, which includes the Expected 
Return, the Amortization of Expected vs. Actual Returns, and the other line items below 
Operating Income.  
 
• Employer Contributions  on the Cash Flow Statement, which reduce cash flow  and may 
affect Cash Taxes.  
 
• Pension Benefit Payments , which do not appear directly on the statements but which 
reduce both the Pension Asset and Pension Liability.  
 
• Unrealized Gains or Losses on Pension A ssets , which also do not appear directly on the 
statements but which affect Pension Assets and Common Shareholders’ Equity.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
73 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If a company that follows U.S. GA AP records $20 in Pension Service Costs, $20 in Pension 
Finance Costs, $100 in Employer Contributions, $50 in Pension Benefit Payments, and $40 in 
Unrealized Gains on the Pension Assets, here’s how the statements change:  
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
74 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the Cash Flow Statement, we record the Deferred Tax adjustment, the add -back for all the 
Pension Expenses on the IS,  and the Employer Contributions:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
75 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Cash is down by $70, mostly because of the Employer Contributions, the Net DTA is down by 
$20 due to the Cash -Tax Savings in this period, and the Pension Asset s are up by $100 because 
of the Employer Contributions in this period.  
(The Benefit Payments and Unrealized Gain affect both the “Before Changes” and “After 
Changes” numbers.)  
On the other side, the Pension Liabilities are up by $40 due to the $40 Pension Expense on the 
Income Statement, which is  added back on the CFS.  
And Common Shareholders’ Equity is down by $30 due to the reduced Net Income. Again, the 
Unrealized Gain or Loss affects both the “Before Changes” and “After Changes” numbers.  
IFRS vs. U.S. GAAP Differences in Pension Accounting  
There are many minor differences between the IFRS and U.S. GAAP treatments of pension 
accounting (e.g., around the allowed Discount Rate, “Asset Ceilings,” and how to measure Gains 
and Losses), but the most important ones are:  
1) The Locations of Items on the  Income Statement Are More Random  – The Service Cost 
won't necessarily be in Operating Expenses , and the Interest Cost , Expected Returns,  
and smaller items could  be anywhere.  
 
2) No Amortization of Actual vs. Expected Returns  – It’s not recorded on the Income 
Statement. Instead, the annual difference goes into Accumulated Other Comprehensive 
Income (AOCI) within CSE on the Balance Sheet, along with Actuarial Gains and Losses.  
 
3) Taxes  – In some countries, the Pension Expense on the Income Statement is Cash -Tax 
Deductible , but Employer Contributions are not… but this varies  widely, so it's not 
exactly an "IFRS difference."  
You can see some of these differences in the notes to Vivendi’s financial statements:  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
76 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Here’s an example Income Statement that illustrates how the Pension Expense is recorded 
differently under IFRS:  
 
Note the lack of separation into Operational vs. Financial or “Other” expenses, which means 
extra work when you calculate metrics like EBIT and EBITDA.  
Also, note the lack of the main Amortization line item that we saw for Target.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
77 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Pension Asset and Liability are largely the same, and the same items flow in to them; the 
main difference is that the “Experience Gain or Loss” and the Actuarial Gain / Loss both affect 
AOCI on the Balance Sheet.  
The Experience Gain or Loss equals the Actual Return on Plan Assets minus the Expected Return 
on Plan Assets:  
 
Finally, the Deferred Taxes on the Cash Flow Statement may differ because the rules for tax 
deductions vary by country.  
What Do Pensions Mean for Financial Modeling?  
As with other advanced items, “not that much” is the best answer.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
78 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The main point is that you need to add the Unfunded Pension obligation to Enterprise Value  
and make sure that Enterprise Value -based multiples are correct.  
“Unfunded Pension” means =MAX(0, Pension Liability – Pension Asset), and you add it when 
calculating Enterprise Value becau se it’s considered “another investor group.”  
If contributions into the plan are tax -deductible, then you should multiply it by (1 – Tax Rate).  
It’s “another investor group” because the employees  are providing long -term funding to the 
company by working at lower rates today in exchange for pension benefits in the future.  
Enterprise Value -based multiples, such as TEV / EBITDA, should deduct  only the Pension Service 
Cost and not the Interest/Finance  Cost.  
For more, please see the guide to Equity Value, Enterprise Value, and Valuation Multiples.  
In an Unlevered DCF analysis, we recommend keeping things simple by ignoring the pension 
completely until you back into Implied Equity Value  at the end . 
At that point, you should subtract either the Unfunded Pension or Unfunded Pension * (1 – Tax 
Rate) , depending on the tax treatment.  
In the Unlevered FCF projections, deduct the Service Cost but nothing else, and  then  add it back  
as a non -cash expense  (similar to Depreciation  – but, again, the taxes may be different ). 
If you have to project the Pension Assets or Pension Liabilities in a 3 -statement model , keep it 
simple , as we did above.  
Focus on the items that might impact cash flow  in a recurring, predictable way : the Service 
Cost, the Interest/Financing Cost, and the Employer Contributions.  
Items like the Pension Benefit Payments make no net impact on cash flow, and neither do 
Unrealized Gains or Losses, so don’t obsess over them.  
Unfunded Pensions should not affect the Cash Price paid by acquirers in M&A deals or 
leveraged buyouts because acquirer s do not pay anything upfront for them (unless the deal 
terms are highly unusual ). 
Return to Top . 
 
 
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
79 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
Interview questions on these more advanced accounting topics are unlikely  unless you’ve had 
significant experience in investment banking or private equity , which is why this section is 
short.  
But even if you have  had that experience, you’re more likely to receive case studies  or modeling 
tests  than  “more advanced” interview questions.  
If a bank wants to assess your ability to build a 3 -statement model, they’ll ask you to build one.  
If a bank wants to see if you understand PIK Interest, they’ll ask you to build an LBO model that 
uses it. 
But since ev ery other guide in this course has a set of interview questions, we wanted to 
provide one here as well.  
 
More Advanced Conceptual Questions  
You’re more likely to get these questions if you’ve had substantial work experience in finance, 
you come from an accounting background , or you’ve worked on a deal where a concept such as 
unfunded pensions was important.  
 
1. What's the difference between the Face Value, Book Value, and Market Value of Debt?  
Face Value represents the amount the company initially issues and pays interest on; it’s 
affected only by principal issuances , repayments/maturities , and Paid -in-Kind (PIK) Interest.  
Book Value is the amount shown on the company’s Balance Sheet. It’s affected by issuance 
fees, debt discounts and premiums, amortization of these items, and principal issuances, 
repayments/maturities, and PIK Interest.  
Market Value is how much someone else  would pay for the Debt in the secondary market; it’s 
affected by prevailing yields on similar Debt and the company’s credit quality.  
 
2. Why might a company issue Debt with an Original Issue Discount (OID), and how is it 
recorded on the statements?  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
80 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A company would issue Debt with an Original Issue Discount if the Market Value of the Debt, 
upon initial issuance, is different from its Face Value.  
For example, yields on similar bonds in the market are 5%, but this company is offering only 4%, 
so it issues the Debt at a discount to incentivize investors to buy the issuance.  
The OID means that investors can buy the bond for less than its Face Value, s o they might be 
able to buy it for $95 if the Face Value is $100 (for example).  
This discount is deducted from the Book Value of Debt on the Balance Sheet, and it amortizes 
over time  so that the Book Value increases each year until maturity . Upon maturity,  Book Value 
= Face Value.  
 
3. Why might a company continually record "Losses on Debt Extinguishment" on its 
statements?  
Losses on Debt Extinguishment can come from several sources, but the most common one is 
the early repayment of Debt principal when the Debt still has unamortized issuance fees or an 
unamortized original issue discount.  
If a company repays Debt early – e.g., it repays 50% of the remaining principal in Year 3 even 
though the Debt only matures in Year 5 – then it must write down 50% of the unamortized OID 
and 50% of the unamortized issuance fees, both of which show up in th is line item.  
Losses on Debt Extinguishment  are non-cash expense s on the Income Statement that get  
reversed on the Cash Flow Statement and flow into the Book Value of Debt on the Balance 
Sheet.  
 
4. How does a company record the initial issuance of a Convertible Bond on the statements?  
Under IFRS, the initial Convertible Bond issuance is always split into Liability and Equity 
components, with the Liability Component equal to the Present Value of future interest 
payments plus future principal repayments , at a Discount Rate equal to the coupon rate on 
equivalent, non -convertible Debt.  
For example, if the Convertible Bond has a very low coupon rate of 0.5%, but the company 
would have to pay 4.0% on non-convertible Debt , you would use 4.0% for the Discount Rate . 
The Equity Component equals the Face Value of the Convertible Bond at issuance minus the 
Liability Component.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
81 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Under U.S. GAAP, this Liability / Equity split happens only if there’s a “cash -settlement” option, 
but that option usually exists.  
 
5. What's the accounting treatment if a Convertible Bond converts into shares before its 
maturity date?  
If there’s a conversion into shares before maturity, the company must record a Loss on Debt 
Extinguishment for the remaining, unamortized issuance fees.  
The Equity Component and Liability Component (i.e., the Book Value of Debt, after the 
Amortization of Issuance Fees and the Amortization of the Debt Discount and the Losses on 
Debt Extinguishment) both get “transferred” into Common Sharehold ers’ Equity.  
So, Common Shareholders’ Equity increases, and both these separate components go to 0.  
 
6. Explain the equity method of accounting (for equity investments or associate companies).  
The equity method is used when one company has “significant influence” but not control  over 
another company, which usually means a 20% to 50% ownership stake (technically, just under 
50%).  
The Parent Co. record s its Ownership Percentage * Sub Co.’s Net Income toward the bottom of 
its Income Statement, which increase s the “ Net Income to Parent” that appears at the very 
bottom . Nothing else changes, so there is no consolidation  of Sub Co.’s full financials.  
On the Cash Flow Statement, Parent Co. reverse s this line item (“Equity Investment Earnings” or 
“Equity Investment Net Income” or something similar) and record s a positive cash inflow for its 
Ownership Percentage * Sub Co.’s Dividends.  
Both these items link into Equity Investments on the Assets side of the Balance Sheet, with 
Equity Investment Earnings increasing this line item and Equity Investment Dividends 
decreasing it.  
 
7. Explain consolidation accounting (for noncontrolling interests ). 
Consolidation accounting is used when one company owns >= 50%, but less than 100%, of 
another company.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
82 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In this scenario, the financial statements of both companies are consolidated 100% , i.e., all the 
items from the Parent Co. and the Sub Co. are added together.  
Parent Co. then makes adjustments for Sub Co.’s Net Income and Dividends.  
On the Income Statement, it subtracts (1 – Ownership Percentage) * Sub Co.’s Net Income  
(“Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests”) , and on the Cash Flow Statement, it 
reverses this.  
Then, it also records a positive cash inflow for O wnership Percentage * Sub Co.’s Dividends.  
Further down on the Cash Flow Statement, it records deductions for 100% of the Dividends 
from both Parent Co. and Sub Co.  
On the Balance Sheet, Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests  (the reversal of the 
deduction on the IS) , 100% of Sub Co.’s Dividends, and Ownership Percentage * Sub Co.’s 
Dividends  all flow into the Noncontrolling Interests (NCI) line  item within Equity.  
The net effect is that the NCI increases  by the Net Income that ’s attributable to other 
shareholders, and it decreases  by the Dividends that go to other shareholders.  
 
8. What happens on the financial statements when employees finally receive their shares 
from Stock -Based Compensation , and it becomes Cash -Tax Deductible to the company?  
Follow the U.S. GAAP treatment.  
If the SBC’s value has changed (e.g., it was granted at $20 but it’s now worth $ 50), then the 
initial amount  (the $20) reduce s the company’s Cash Taxes and show s up as a positive 
adjustment in Deferred Income Taxes on the Cash Flow Statement . 
On the Balance Sheet, the Deferred Tax Asset that was initially created when the SBC was 
issued now go es back to $0.  
On the Income Statement, there ’s an additional line item for “Excess Tax Benefits  / 
(Deficiencies) ” in between Pre -Tax Income and Net Income, equal to Change in Value of SBC  * 
Tax Rate.  
If the SBC’s value has increased, this line item reduces the company’s taxes; if it has decreased, 
it increases the tax burden.  
In this example, it ’s  ($50 – $20)  * 25% = $ 7.5, so the company’s Income Taxes fall by $ 7.5. 
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
83 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
9. How is this treatment for Stock -Based Compensation different under IFRS? Just give a high -
level overview.  
The main difference under IFRS is that as the value of the SBC changes, the Deferred Tax Asset 
associated with the initial issuance keeps changing . It’s still created in the same way and still 
goes to $0 when the SBC finally becomes Cash -Tax D eductible.  
The initial “Tax Benefits” from the SBC, e.g., Tax Rate * Initial SBC Value, are recorded on the 
Income Statement in between Pre -Tax Income and Net Income, but the Excess Tax Benefits do 
not appear there.  
Instead, they reduce Cash Taxes  in the year the deduction is finally allowed, there’s a positive 
adjustment in Deferred Income Taxes on the CFS , and the DTA drops to $0.  
 
10. How are Unrealized Gains and Losses recorded differently for Trading  / Fair Value 
Through Profit & Loss ( FVPL ), Available for Sale (AFS) / Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income (FVOCI) , and Held to Maturity (HTM) / Amortized Cost securities?  
First, note th at all Equity securities now use the Trading/FVPL treatment, so the AFS/FVOCI and 
HTM/Amortized Cost ones are only available for Debt.  
With the Trading/FVPL treatment, Unrealized Gains and Losses appear directly on the Income 
Statement  but do not affect the company’s Cash Taxes, so the Deferred Tax line item on the CFS 
changes, which affects the DTA or DTL on the Balance Sheet.  
The impact on the DTA or DTL reverses when the company finally sells the Trading securities  
and records a Realized Gain or Loss.  
With AFS or FVOCI securities, Unrealized Gains and Losses affect the Balance Sheet line item 
and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income within Common Shareholders’ Equity on the 
other side, but do not appear on the IS or CFS.  
Finally, Unrealized Gains and Losses do not appear on the statements at all for HTM or 
Amortized Cost securities, which is the treatment used for most Debt investments.  
 
11. How are the LIFO, FIFO, and Moving Average Weighted Cost methods for Inventory and 
COGS different?  
With the LIFO (“Last -In, First -Out”) method, the company uses the cost of the latest items 
purchased  for its Cost of Goods Sold on the Income Statement.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
84 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
For example, if Inventory prices increased from $10 per unit to $20 per u nit over a year, the 
company kept purchasing Inventory the whole time, and now it sells 10 units, it record s $20 * 
10 = $200 for COGS.  
With FIFO (“First -In, First -Out”), the company uses the cost of the earliest items purchased  for 
COGS, so it records $10 * 10 = $100 . 
With the Moving Average Weighted Cost method, the company calculates the average unit cost 
in each period, which keeps changing, and it uses Most Recent Average Unit Cost * Units Sold 
for COGS.  
Under IFRS, only FIFO and the Average method are allowed; U.S. GAAP allows those as well as 
LIFO.  
If Inventory costs are rising, FIFO tends to produce higher Net Income but lo wer Cash Flow, 
while LIFO does the opposite.  
 
12. For a Defined -Benefit Pension plan, how do the Pension Asset and Pension Liability 
change over time?  
The Pension Asset change s based on the return  the company earns (the Actual Return), how 
much the company contributes (Employer Contributions), and how much it pays out to 
employees (Benefit Payments).  
There may also be “Other Adjustments” and plan contributions from employees.  
The Pension Liability,  or Pension Benefit Obligation , changes based on the Service Cost (the 
additional amount the company owes based on employees working longer or earning more), 
the Interest Cost (the PV of the Liability increasing due to the passage of time), the Experience 
(Gain) / Loss (actuarial estimates changing), and Benefit Payments . 
Again, there may also be “Other Adjustments ” and plan contributions from employees.  
 
13. Why does the Pension Expense on the Income Statement consist of mostly non -cash 
expenses?  
The main components of the Pension Expense on the Income St atement are the Service Cost, 
the Interest Cost, the Expected  Return on Plan Assets, the Amortization of Net Losses, Gains, 
and Prior Service Costs, and “Other Adjustments.”  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
85 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
(Under IFRS, the Amortization of Net Losses and Gains does not appear, but the oth er items 
do.) 
The logic behind these items is that the company attempts to “smooth out” its gains and losses 
over time because the returns on Pension Assets are often volatile, so it uses various 
Amortization line items to do that.  
None of these items represent  upfront cash expense s – they represent hypothetical returns, 
the passage of time, or the amortization of Expected vs. Actual returns . 
Even the Service Cost, which qualifies as “operational,” is not a cash expense – it’s the accrual  
of future expe nses because of salary increases or employees working additional years.  
On the Cash Flow Statement, most companies add back all, or a significant portion, of this 
Income Statement expense and then show a cash outflow for the Employer Contributions into 
the plan.  
 
14. Explain the links between the Pension Expense on the Income Statement, the Pension 
Plan Asset, the Pension Plan Liability, and the Pension items on the Cash Flow Statement.  
Most, or all, of the Pension Expense on the Income Statement is added back on the Cash Flow 
Statement, and the company records its Emplo yer Contributions as a cash outflow there.  
Also, there ’s a Deferred Tax impact , depending on which items are Cash -Tax Deductible (e.g., 
just the Service Cost, the entire IS Pension Expense, just the Employer Contributions, etc.).  
Of these line items, only the Employer Contributions from the CFS directly affect the Pension 
Asset; it also changes based on Actual Returns (i.e., Unrealized Gains/Losses) and Benefit 
Payments.  
With the Pension Liability, the Service Cost and Interest Cost flow in from the Income 
Statement and increase it. Actuarial Gains and Benefit Payments also affect it (neither one is 
shown on the IS or CFS).  
Finally, under U.S. GAAP, the Amortization of Expected vs. Actual Returns appears on the 
Income Statement and is influenced by the Actua l Returns that flow into the Pension Asset.  
Under IFRS, the difference between Expected and Actual Returns each year goes into AOCI 
within Equity on the Balance Sheet.  
Return to Top . 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
86 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Advanced Accounting Scenarios on the Financial Statements  
This section contains the most likely interview questions in this guide.  
You could easily get questions about the line items associated with Debt, Equity Investments, 
and Noncontrolling Interest s – especially if you have accounting experience.  
You’re less likely to receive “How do the financial statements change?” -type questions about 
LIFO/FIFO, pensions, and stock -based compensation because those topics are more obscure 
and difficult to frame in terms of specific numbers.  
 
1. Walk me through the financial statements when there's a $100 Face Value Debt issuance 
with $5 in Issuance Fees, amortized over 5 years, but the Debt is repaid early  – at the end of 
Year 3.  
Assume a 5% coupon rate and no principal repayments until maturity,  and explain just the 
changes in Year 3.  
Initially, the Debt is recorded at a Book Value of $95 on the Balance Sheet, and it increase s by 
$1 per year as the Issuance Fees amortize.  
On the Income Statement in Year 3, there’s $1 in Finance Fee Amortization, and the remaining 
$2 is written down and shown as a Loss on Debt Extinguishment. There ’s also $5 in Interest 
Expense.  
Pre-Tax Income is down by $8, so at a 25% Tax Rate, Net Income is down by $6.  
On the CFS, Net Income is down by $6, and you add back the $3 in Amortization plus the Loss 
on Debt Extinguishment. Within Cash Flow from Financing, there’s a negative $100 cash 
outflow for the Debt Principal Repayment, so Cash at the bottom is down by $103.  
On the Balance Sheet, Cash on the Assets side is down by $103; on the other side, Debt is down 
by $97, and CSE is down by $6 due to the reduced Net Income, so both sides are down by $103 
and balance.  
 
2. Walk me through the financia l statements when there's a $100 Face Value Convertible 
Bond issued with a Liability Component of $80 and $5 in Issuance Fees.  
Assume straight -line amortization over 5 years  and a coupon rate of 1.0%.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
87 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Initially, the company records $80 – $5 = $75 for the Book Value of Debt  and $20 for the Equity 
Component, so the L&E side is up by $95.  
On the Assets side, Cash is up by $95 because the company had to pay the $5 in Issuance Fees 
in cash.  
Each year after that, the company records $100 * 1.0% = $1 in Interest Expense , $5 / 5 = $1 in 
Amortization of Financing Fees, and $20 / 5 = $4 for the Amortization of the Debt Discount.  
They’re all classified within Interest Expense on the Income Statement , so Net Income falls by 
$6 * 75% = $4.5 at a 25% tax rate.  
On the CFS, Net Income is down by $ 4.5, and you add back the $ 5 of Amortization, so Cash at 
the bottom is down by $0.5.  
On the Assets side, Cash is down by $0.5, so Total Assets are down by $0.5  
On the L&E side, the Book Value of Debt increases by $ 5 due to both Amortization  lines , but 
Common Shareholders’ Equity is down by $ 4.5 due to the reduced Net Income, so the L&E side 
is also down by $0.5, and both sides balance.  
 
3. What happens if th is same Convertible Bond converts into common shares at the end of  
Year 3?  
The company must write down the remaining unamortized Issuance Fees, which appear s as a 
Loss on Debt Extinguishment on the Income Statement  (along with the normal Cash Interest 
Expense and Amortization line items).  
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is down, and the Loss and Amortization line items are 
added back . The conversion into shares makes no cash impact, so it’s usually not shown directly 
on the CFS.  
On the Balance Sheet, the Debt Component and the Equity Component of the Convertible Bond 
are both transferred into Common Shareholders’ Equity  
At the end of Year 3, the $20 Equity Component is the same, and the Liability Compon ent 
equals the Face Value of $100 minus the remaining unamortized Debt Discount, which means 
$100 – $8 = $92.  
So, Common Shareholders’ Equity increases by $112, the Equity Component decreases by $20, 
and the Liability Component decreases by $92.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
88 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
4. Walk me through the financial statements over a year when a company has issued a $100 
Face Value bond with 5% Cash Interest and 5% PIK Interest. Ignore the Issuance Fees.  
Initially , Cash on the Assets side increases by $100, and Debt on the L&E side also increases by 
$100.  
In Year 1, the company records $100 * 10% = $10 of Interest Expense on the Income Statement, 
so its Pre -Tax Income falls by $10, and its Net Income falls by $7.5 at a 25% tax rate.  
On the CFS, Net Income is down by $7.5, but you add  back the $5 of PIK Interest, which is non -
cash, so Cash at the bottom is down by $2.5.  
On the BS, Cash is down by $2.5, so the Assets side is down by $2.5. On the L&E side, Debt is up 
by $5 from the PIK Interest, and CSE is down by $7.5 due to the reduced  Net Income, so both 
sides are down by $2.5 and balance.  
 
5. Walk me through the statements when a Parent Co. already owns a 30% stake in Sub Co., 
and the Sub Co. earns $100 in Net Income and issues $40 in Dividends.  
Parent Co. records 30% * $100 = $30 in Equity Investment Earnings on its Income Statement, 
which boosts its Net Income by $30.  
On the CFS, Net Income is up by $30, but then Parent Co. reverses these Equity Investment 
Earnings and records $40 * 30% = $12 in Dividends Received from Equity Inve stments.  
At the bottom, Cash is up by $12.  
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is up by $12 on the Assets side. The Equity Investment s line item is 
up by $30 from the Equity Investment Earnings and down by $12 from the Dividends, so the 
Assets side is up by $30.  
The L&E side is also up by $30 because CSE is up by $30 due to the Net Income increase, so 
both sides are up by $30 and balance.  
 
6. Walk me through the Balance Sheet combination when Parent Co. goes from a 30% stake 
to an 80% stake in Sub Co. , using 100% Cash for the purchase price.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
89 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Assume that Sub Co.'s Market Cap is $200 and that it has $200 in Total Assets and $ 50 in Total 
Liabilities.  Also, assume that Parent Co. acquired its 30% stake in Sub Co. when Sub Co.’s 
Market Cap was $ 50, and that its Balance Sheet value has not changed since then.  
First, we need to calculate the Premium or Discount to the Book Value of the existing Equity 
Investment : $200 * 30%  – $50 * 30% = $45.  
Parent Co. will create Goodwill based on the purchase price for 100% of Sub Co.  minus Sub 
Co.’s Common Shareholders’ Equity, which is $1 50 based on these numbers ($200 of Total 
Assets – $50 of Total Liabilities).  
Therefore, New Goodwill = $200 – $150 = $ 50. 
On the Assets side, Parent Co. deducts the (80%  – 30%)  * $200 = $1 00 in Cash used to make this 
acquisition , and it removes the $ 15 in Equity Investments.  
Then, it adds the $50 of new Goodwill and the $200 of Sub Co.’s Total Assets, so the Assets side 
is up by $ 135. 
On the L&E side, Parent Co. adds Sub Co.’s $50 of Liabilities and creates a $40 Noncontrolling 
Interest for the 20% of Sub Co. that it does not own (20% * $200 = $40).  
Also,  it records the $45 Premium to the Book Value of the previous Equity Investment within 
Common Shareholders’ Equity.  
So, the L&E side is up by $50 + $40 + $45 = $135, and both sides balance.  
 
7. Now, walk me through what happens in Year 1 following the deal when Parent Co. 
maintains its 80% stake in Sub Co. Assume that Parent Co.'s Net Income is $100, with $20 of 
Dividends, and that Sub Co.'s Net Income is $20, with $ 5 of Dividends.  
Parent Co. has $100 of Net Income, and Sub Co. has $20, so the total Net Income is $120.  
At the bottom of the Income Statement, Parent Co. deducts 20% * Sub Co. Net Income, or 20% 
* $20 = $4.  
So, Net Income to Parent is up by $ 116.  
On the CFS, Net Income to Parent is up by $ 116, but Parent Co. then reverses the deduct ion 
from the Income Statement and adds back this $4 in Net Income Attributable to NCI.  
Then, it records 80% * $5 = $4 of Dividends Received from Sub Co.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
90 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In Cash Flow from Financing , Parent Co. deducts its $20 of Dividends and Sub Co.’s $5 of 
Dividends.  
So, Cash at the bottom is up by $ 116 + $4 + $4 – $20 – $5 = $ 99. 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash on the Assets side is up by $ 99, so Total Assets are up by $ 99. 
On the L&E side, the NCI increases by Net Income to Noncontrolling Interests (+$ 4), increase s 
by Dividends Received from Sub Co. ( +$4), and decrease s by Sub Co.’s Total Dividends ( –$5). So, 
it is up by $3 here.  
Common Shareholders’ Equity increases by the $ 116 Net Income to Parent and decreases by 
the $20 in Dividends it issues, so it’s up by $ 96 here.  
Therefore, the L&E side is up by $ 99 because the NCI is up by $3 , and CSE is up by $ 96. Both 
sides are up by $ 99 and balance.  
 
8. At a high level (no numbers), explain what happens if Parent Co. sells its entire 80% stake 
in Sub Co. after a few years.  
Parent Co. deconsolidate s the financial statements by removing all of Sub Co.’s Assets and 
Liabilities, the new Goodwill that was created in the deal to a cquire the 80% stake , and the 
Noncontrolling Interest.  
Also, Parent Co. has to record the Gain or Loss on the sale within Common Shareholders’ Equity  
and the total Cash it receives on the Assets side.  
The Gain or Loss is based on (Market Value of Stake Sold + Market Value of New Equity 
Investment, If Any + Book Value of Noncontrolling Interests) – Sub Co.’s Net Assets Including 
Goodwill.  
This Gain or Loss is taxed, and the total Cash proceeds equal the Cost Basis Recovered plus the 
After -Tax Gain or Loss.  
 
9. Walk me through the statements under U.S. GAAP when  employees receive $40 of Stock -
Based Compensation and then exercise their options and receive shares once the SBC’s value 
has increased to $140 in a future year.  
Initially, the $40 of SBC is not Cash -Tax Deductible, so a Deferred Tax Asset of $40 * 25% = $10 
gets created.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
91 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
If the SBC’s value increases to $140 in a future year, first, the ($140 – $40) * 25% = $ 25 is 
recorded as an “Excess Tax Benefit” on the Income Statement that reduces Income Taxes and 
increases Net Income by $25.  
On the Cash Flow Statemen t, Net Income is up by $25, and now the company can take the 
Cash -Tax Deduction on the original $40 of SBC, which produces a positive $10 in Deferred 
Taxes.  
At the bottom of the CFS, Cash is up by $35.  
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is up by $35 on the Assets side, and the DTA is down by $10, so the 
Assets side is up by $25.  
On the L&E side, Common Shareholders’ Equity is up by $25 due to the increased Net Income, 
so both sides are up by $25 and balance.  
 
10. Walk me through the statements when a company has $100 of Equity Securities classified 
as Trading or FVPL, and it records an Unrealized Gain of $40  on them.  
The Unrealized Gain shows up on the Income Statement and boosts Pre -Tax Income by $40, 
resulting in  a $30 increase in Net Income at a 25% tax rate.  
On the CFS, Net Income is up by $30, and the Unrealized Gain of $40  is reversed.  
The company does not pay an extra $10 in Cash Taxes from this, so it also records a positive $10 
in Deferred Income Taxes.  
At the bottom, Cash is unchanged.  
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is unchanged, the Equity Securities are up by $40 , and the Deferred 
Tax Asset is down by $10, so Total Assets are up by $ 30. 
On the L&E side,  Common Shareholders’ Equity is up by $30 due to the increased Net Income, 
so both sides are up by $30 and balance.  
 
11. A company records $40 in Pension Service Costs and $40 in Pension Interest/Finance 
Costs, as well as $100 in Employer Contributions int o the plan.  
Assume that the Income Statement expenses are NOT Cash -Tax Deductible, but that the 
Employer Contributions are, and walk through the financial statements.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
92 of 92 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the Income Statement, Pre -Tax Income is down by $80, so Net Income is down by $60 at a 
25% tax rate.  
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is down by $60, but you add back the entire $80 
Pension Expense from the Income Statement.  
This $80 Pension Expense is not Cash -Tax Deductible, but the $100 Employer Contributions are, 
so the company’s  Cash Taxes are lower than its Book Taxes by ($100 – $80) * 25% = $5.  
This is shown as a positive $5 in Deferred Taxes, and the $100 in Employer Contributions are 
negative, so Cash is down by $75 , since –$60 + $80 + $5 – $100 = –$75. 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is down by $75, the Pension Assets are up by $100 from the 
Employer Contributions , and the Deferred Tax Asset is down by $5, so Total Assets are up by 
$20.  
On the L&E side, the Pension Liability is up by $80 because of the Pension Expense  added back 
on the CFS , and Common Shareholders’ Equity is down by $60 due to the reduced Net Income.  
So, both sides are up by $20 and balance.  
Return t o Top . 