 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Summary of Advanced Merger Model Features  
Table of Contents:  
Overview of Advanced Merger Model Features  ................................................................ 1 
Quarterly Merger Models  ............................................................................................... 2 
Quarterly Model Setup and Projections  .................................................................................. 3 
Variable Close Dates  ................................................................................................................ 5 
Stub Periods and “Rollforwards”  ............................................................................................. 7 
Exchange Ratios and Collars  ......................................................................................... 10 
Stock vs. Asset vs. 338(h)(10) Deals  .............................................................................. 13 
Net Operating Losses (NOLs) in Different Deal Structures  ........................................... 16 
Interview Questions  .......................................................................................................... 19 
Quarterly Models, Variable Close Dates, and Stub Periods  ................................................... 19 
Exchange Ratios and Collars  .................................................................................................. 21 
Stock vs. Asset vs. 338(h)(10) Deals and NOLs  ...................................................................... 23 
 
Overview of Advanced Merger Model Features  
This guide covers features common in more advanced merger models , such as quarterly 
projections, Exchange Ratios with collars, and Stock vs. Asset vs. 338(h)(10) deals.  
We assume you already know the fundamentals , so we do not spend time re -explaining the 
basic assumptions or model structure ( please see the introductory guide for that coverage).  
This guide is less of a step -by-step walkthrough and more of a “quick reference” for formulas 
and schedules in merger models. You can jump to specific topics using the Table of Contents 
above.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Quarterly Merger Models  
In a standard merger model, the deal  close s at the end of the Buyer’s fiscal year, and the Buyer 
and Seller  have the same  fiscal years (e.g., ones that end on December 31st). 
In real life, both assumptions are often false:  
• The Buyer’s fiscal year might end on June 30th, but the Seller’s might end on Dec. 31st. 
 
• The deal might close on March 31st, September 30th, or another date that does not 
coincide with the end of a quarter or year.  
The first problem is easier to deal with: A lways use the Buyer’s fiscal year in merger models . 
If the Buyer’s fiscal year ends on June 30th but the Seller’s ends on December 31st, you can take 
the results from the last six months of the Seller’s fiscal year and add them to the first six  
months of the next year.  
You then add those results to the ones from the Buyer’s fiscal year since they now cover the 
same period (January 1st – December 31st). 
If the merger model is built on a quarterly basis , you can use functions like XLOOKUP and 
INDEX/MATCH to retrieve the financials for the corresponding dates  and add together quarters.  
The second problem with irregular closing dates is more cumbersome to deal with . 
If the deal closes between fiscal years or quarters, you must create stub period s in the model . 
For example, if the deal closes on August 14th, you’d have to create two stub periods  in a 
quarterly model: One that shows the Buyer and Seller’s results from July 1st to August 14th and 
another that shows the ir results from August 1 5th to September 30th. 
To do this, you would multiply the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement line items by 
the percentages of the quarter that the stub periods represent.  
July 1st to August 14th is 45 days inclusive, so this is 45 / 92 = 48.9%, and August 15th to 
September 30th is 47 days inclusive, which is 47 / 92 = 51.1%.  
You would also have to create a Balance Sheet forecast for August 14th based on the July 1st to 
August 14th stub period, with links for each “pairing” (e.g., AR on August 14th would be based on 
Revenue over this period).  
The first “full” combined quarter would run from October 1st to December 31st, and you would 
focus on the first full combined year for analytical purposes.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Quarterly Model  Setup and Projections  
The main differences in quarterly 3 -statement models are as follows:  
• Year -Over-Year (YoY) Growth Rates:  Instead of projecting the growth from quarter to 
quarter, such as Q3 to Q4, you should use Y ear-Over-Year growth rates, such as Q4 of 
20X5 vs. Q4 of 20X4. This is due to the seasonality in many businesses : 
 
• Balance Sheet Projections:  Anything based on an Income Statement figure, such as 
Accounts Receivable, should use the Last Twelve Months  (LTM) figure  on the IS  rather 
than a single quarter’s numbers. For example, AR for Q3 of 20X5 should be based on the 
LTM Revenue between Q4 of 20X4 and Q3 of 20X5.  
 
• Debt, Cash, and Interest:  Anything based on an annual  rate or repayment percentage 
must be divided by 4 in a quarterly model (there is a more precise way to convert 
annual rates to quarterly rates, but this is fine in most models). If the annual interest 
rate on Debt is 8%, the quarterly interest  should be 2% * Quarterly Debt Balance . 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• Credit  Stats and Ratios:  If you are mixing Balance Sheet and Income Statement  figures, 
such as Debt / EBITDA, you must use the LTM  version of the Income Statement metric. 
So, it’s always Debt At the End of the Quarter / LTM EBITDA.  
 
• Annua l Roll -Ups and Summaries:  Finally, it helps to create annual roll -ups that 
summarize the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement with SUMIF and the 
Balance Sheet with INDEX/MATCH or XLOOKUP. Otherwise, it’s difficult to interpret all 
the numbers.  
 
The SUMIF function here is based on the numerical year numbers in row 35, which is offscreen; 
we add only the quarters whose year numbers match those of the full fiscal years.  
Return to Top . 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Variable Close Dates  
Variable close dates affect the model in two main ways:  
1. Deal Financing and Assumptions  – Depending on the close date, the deal's Cash, Debt, 
and Stock mix might change as the Acquirer and Target’s Cash and Debt levels change 
over time.  
 
2. Financial Statement Combination – You must  use INDEX/MATCH or XLOOKUP to bring 
in the companies’ separate financials and match them to the dates . This could produce 
very different accretion/dilution figures when measured annually . 
With point #1, when calculating the Cash and Debt available for use in a deal, you must bring in 
the numbers from the Acquirer and Target on the close date  and calculate their LTM EBITDAs on 
the close date . Here are a few examples:  
 
The Post -Transaction Minimum Cash stays the same regardless of the close date, so the 
Maximum Cash Available for the Deal changes as the close date changes.  We use 
INDEX/MATCH to find the Acquirer and Target’s numbers based on the assumed close date.  
The Maximum Debt setup is similar but requires two separate formulas to bring in the Debt and 
the LTM EBITDA on the close date (the Debt part is shown below):  
 
Assuming the Acquirer and Target both grow modestly , later close dates tend to improve EPS 
accretion  because they result in higher Cash balance s and lower Debt balances.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Therefore, more Cash and Debt can fund the deal, which boosts EPS accretion since they are 
both cheaper than Stock.  
To combine the financial statements, you can use INDEX/MATCH or XLOOKUP functions that 
reference just the Acquirer’s numbers or add the Acquirer and Target’s numbers, depending on 
whether the deal has closed:  
 
Many items must be recalculated on a quarterly basis on the Combined Income Statement and 
Cash Flow Statement; examples are the new D&A on asset write -ups, the Foregone Interest on 
Cash, and the Interest Paid on New Debt:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Balance Sheet  is trick ier to combine because there are three cases:  
1. Close Date  – You link in a “special version ” of the Balance Sheet, which reflects the 
adjustments for Cash, Debt, Stock, Goodwill, other asset write -ups, etc.  
 
2. Pre-Close Date  – In this case, it’s just the Acquirer’s Balance Sheet, brought in via an 
INDEX/MATCH or XLOOKUP function.  
 
3. Post -Close Date  – Depending on the item, these are either additions of the Acquirer and 
Target’s Balance Sheets (e.g., for the Working Capital lines) or they are based on the 
previous quarter  plus/minus the corresponding changes on the Cash Flow Statement in 
this quarter (e.g., Net PP&E  and CapEx and D&A on the CFS ). 
The formulas get long and complicated and are better understood in Excel, but here’s an 
example of the se three cases for the Combined Company’s Net PP&E:  
 
The second case is a simple INDEX/MATCH with an IFERROR wrapped around it for the Net 
PP&E line from the Acquirer’s Balance Sheet  on the matching date . 
The third case takes the 4Q  20 Net PP&E numbers and subtracts the corresponding CFS lines, 
such as CapEx and D&A ( this subtraction turns CapEx positive and D&A negative).  
Return to Top . 
 
Stub Periods and “Rollforwards”  
If a deal closes on an irregular date , such as August 14th or something else that is not the end of 
a quarter or fiscal year, and you need to model it accurately, you must create two “stub period 
financials”  for the Acquirer and Target . 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
In this example, we’ll walk through a deal that closed on April 30th vs. December 31st fiscal years 
for both companies.  
If you already have 3 -statement models for the Acquirer and Target , Step 1  is to calculate the 
pre- and post -transaction stub period  fractions . In this case, they’re ~0.33 and ~0.67 since April 
30th is about 1/3 of the fiscal year.  
Next, you create “ stub ” Income Statements and Cash Flow Statements for both periods by 
multiplying the full -year numbers by these fractions  (Acquirer’s numbers shown below):  
 
The Balance Sheet  is trickier because the April 30th numbers must be “ in-between ” the 
December 31st numbers from the previous year and the current year.  
There are two main cases:  
1. Flows  in from Cash Flow Statement Stub  – This applies to items like Cash, PP&E, and 
Debt. Simply link the old version of the item to the corresponding lines on the CFS stub.  
 
2. Projected with Stub Periods  – Many Working Capital items fall into this category.  Take 
the old number and add (Difference  Between Previous and Current FY N umbers ) * P re-
Transaction Stub Period Fraction  to get the April 30th numbers.  
Here’s an example for AR:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
This creates a “rolled forward” version of the Balance Sheet as of the transaction close date.  
Since the close date  in this model is variable, the Cash/Debt/Stock mix used to fund the deal 
varies as the date changes. However, the deal’s close date is limited to a 12 -month range here 
rather than the 2+ year range in the previous example, so the funding won’t vary nearly as 
much.  
When combining the statements , you make all the usual adjustments on the Balance Sheet 
based on the April 30th version : Cash, Debt, and Stock change , and there are asset write -ups, 
new Goodwill, and a write -down of the Target’s Common Shareholders’ Equity.  
On the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement, you will most likely ignore  the pre -
transaction stub through April 30th and just show the combined numbers in the post-
transaction stub from May 1st to December 31st, followed by the full combined years after that:  
 
The stub periods  do not change any of the conclusions in this model because the EPS 
accretion/dilution and other analyses are usually based on the full combined years . 
The IRR would shift due to the timing differences , but it would not make a huge difference 
unless the “split year” ( FY 20) differed greatly  from all the other projected years.  
These points explain why quarterly models, stub periods, rollforwards, and variable close dates 
are “on the job” topic s: They barely make a difference in most normal scenarios.  
Return to Top . 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Exchange Ratios and Collars  
When a Buyer funds an M&A deal with Stock,  there’s inherent ambiguity  about the purchase 
price . For example, consider the following scenario:  
• Equity Purchase Price:  $1,000  
• Funding : 100%  Stock  
• Buyer’s Current Share Price:  $10.00  
Based on this, you conclude that the Buyer must issue 10 0 new  shares to do this deal.  
But what if the Buyer’s share price falls to $9.00?  
Does that mean:  
a) The Equity Purchase Price  falls to $900 since the Buyer now issues 10 0 shares worth 
$9.00 each.  
 
b) The Equity Purchase Price  stays at $1,000, but the Buyer now issues 111.11 shares 
rather than 100 shares.  
It could be either one  – or even a combination of both.  
Option A is called a Fixed Exchange Ratio  and means  that a constant number of shares  is 
always issued in the deal.  
Option B is called a Floating Exchange Ratio  and means the Equity Purchase Price stays the 
same , so the shares issued change as the Buyer’s share price changes.  
The Buyer tends to favor the Fixed Exchange Ratio  if it wants to limit dilution and prefers 
certainty around the post -deal ownership.  
The Seller tends to favor the Floating Exchange Ratio  if it believes the Buyer’s s tock price will 
fall, as this method “locks in” its price and produces a higher ownership percentage  if the 
Buyer’s stock price falls.  
To compromise, the Buyer and Seller can use a collar  to establish a Fixed Exchange Ratio within 
certain share -price ranges and a Floating Exchange Ratio within others.  
For example, a Fixed Exchange Ratio with a collar  might be structured like this:  
• Buyer’s Share Price Between $50.00 and $60.00:  The Seller always gets 10 million of the 
Buyer’s shares, so its ownership percentage is fixed , but its effective purchase price 
ranges from $500 to $600 million.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• Buyer’s Share Price Above $60.00:  The Seller gets a maximum price of $600 million, so 
it receive s fewer shares if the Buyer’s share price increases (e.g., 7.5 million shares if the 
Buyer’s share price reaches $80.00).  
 
• Buyer’s  Share Price Below $50.00:  The Seller gets a minimum price of $500 million, so it 
receive s more shares if the Buyer’s stock price falls (e.g., 12.5 million shares if the 
Buyer’s share price falls to $40.00).  
Another option is a Floating Exchange Ratio with a collar , which might be structured like this:  
• Buyer’s Share Price Between $50.00 and $60.00:  The Seller always gets an effective 
purchase price of $550 million. So, it receives 11 million shares when the Buyer’s share 
price is $50.00 and ~9.2 million shares when the Buyer’s share price is $60.00.  
 
• Buyer’s Share Price Above $60.00:  The Seller always gets ~9.2 million shares, so its 
ownership stays the same, but its purchase price could climb to much higher levels.  
 
• Buyer’s Share Price Below $50.00:  The Seller always gets 11 million shares, so its 
ownership stays the same, but its purchase price could fall to much lower levels if the 
Buyer’s share price falls significantly.  
If the Seller’s main concern is its ownership  in the combined entity, it could negotiate a Floating 
Exchange Ratio with a collar to ensure ownership within a specific range.  
But if its main concern is the purchase price , it might prefer a Fixed Exchange Ratio with a collar 
to ensure that the purchase price stays within a specific range.  
Here’s what the se structures look like for the Builders FirstSource / BMC deal:  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
In general, collars are most useful when:  
• The Seller is moderately sized  relative to  the Buyer –  maybe 1 / 4 or 1 / 3 of its size. So, 
it’s not a Merger of Equals, but it’s also not a tiny acquisition.  
 
• The parties want the risk protection of a Cash deal and the tax benefits  of a Stock deal.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
• It’s a cross -border  deal  involving different currencies  (collars can also reduce FX risk if 
the offer price is based on one currency).  
 
• The Buyer’s share price has been volatile,  or the Buyer and Seller strongly disagree 
about the Buyer’s prospects . 
 
• The deal is a competitive auction, and one Buyer wants to stand out by offering 
attractive deal terms.  
 
• The deal will take a long time to close . A 100% Stock deal that takes 12 months to close 
because of regulatory and anti -trust requirements is much riskier than one that takes 
only 2  – 3 months to close.  
Return to Top . 
 
Stock vs. Asset vs. 338(h)(10) Deals  
The two main M&A deal structures are Stock Purchases  and Asset Purchases.  
In a Stock Purchase , the Buyer purchases all  the Seller’s outstanding shares  and gets all its 
Assets, Liabilities, and off -Balance Sheet items.  
In an Asset Purchase , the Buyer purchases only selected  Assets of the Seller and assumes only 
selected  Liabilities. And it gets only the off- Balance Sheet items listed  in the agreement.  
100% Cash deals, 100% Debt deals, and 100% Stock deals could all be structured as either  Stock 
Purchases or Asset Purchases; “Stock” here does not refer to the financing method.  
These two structures exist worldwide  and work similarly under U.S. GAAP and IFRS, but specific 
details, such as the tax treatments, may differ from country to country.  
Asset Purchases are far more common for divestitures and acquisitions of smaller, private 
companies; they’re difficult to use when acquiring large, public Sellers.  
Buyers  tend to favor Asset Purchases  because:  
1) They let Buyers pick and choose exactly  what they get in deals, which reduces risk; and  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
2) Assets are written up for both Book and Tax purposes, meaning that Buyers can deduct the 
D&A on Asset Write -Ups for cash -tax purposes . 
There are other differences as well: F or example, Goodwill amortizes for cash -tax purposes in 
Asset Purchases,  which provides another tax benefit for Buyers.  
But in Stock Purchases, Goodwill does not amortize , and the new D&A created in the deal is not 
cash -tax deductible.  
One disadvantage of an Asset Purchase is that the Seller’s shareholders must pay taxes based 
on the purchase price and the Gains on its Net Assets.  
One disadvantage for the Buyer is that the Seller’s Net Operating Losses (NOLs) are written 
down 100% and may not be used after the deal closes.  
Sellers  tend to prefer Stock Purchases  because:  
1) Their shareholders pay taxes based on the Purchase Price , which means they are almost 
always lower because the Gain on Net Assets does not factor in.  
 
2) There’s less post -transaction risk because the Buyer acquires everything the Seller has 
(Assets, Liabilities, and off -Balance Sheet items), so any issues with those items become 
the Buyer’s responsibility.  
 
3) Stock Purchases are faster to execute than Asset Purchases because the Buyer and 
Seller don’t need to specify the treatment of every single Asset and Liability.  
To compromise, Buyers and Sellers can use a 338(h)(10) election to treat a Stock Purchase like 
an Asset Purchase  for tax purposes.  
The 338(h)(10) election is specific to the U.S. tax code, so you don’t need to know about it if 
you’re in another region . However, similar structures may exist in other countries.  
In a 338(h)(10) deal, the Buyer purchases all the Seller’s shares and gets all its Assets, Liabilities, 
and off- Balance Sheet items, but the tax treatment is the same as in an Asset deal.  
So, the new D&A on Asset Write -Ups is cash -tax deductible, no new DTL gets created, there’s 
tax-deductible Goodwill amortization, and the Seller’s NOLs are written down 100%.  
338(h)(10) deals have additional requirements as well; for example, the Buyer must be a C 
corporation, the Seller must be U.S.- based, and the Buyer must acquire at least 80% of the 
Seller’s “value and voting power ” within 12 months . 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Here’s a summary:  
 
Return to Top . 
 Structure:  Stock Purchase  Asset Purchase  338(h)(10) Election  
Buyer Acquires:  All Assets , Liabilitie s, and  
Off-BS Items  Only Certain  
Assets and 
Liabilities  All Assets , 
Liabilities , and Off -
BS Items  
Seller Pays Taxes 
Based On: Purchase Price  Purchase Price PLUS (Value Assigned to 
Net Assets in Deal  – Book Value of Net 
Assets)  
Assets Written Up 
on Tax Balance 
Sheet?  No Yes 
Can Buyer Deduct 
New D&A on Asset 
Write -Ups for Cash -
Tax Purposes?  No Yes 
Creates New DTL?  Yes No 
Goodwill  & Other 
Intangibles:  Not amortized for tax 
purposes and not cash -
tax-deductible  Amortization is tax -deductible; 
amortized over 15 years for cash -tax 
purposes  
Allowable Annual 
NOL Usage:  Equity Purchase Price * 
Maximum of Past 3 
Months’ Adjusted Long -
Term Rates  None  
Off-Balance Sheet 
NOL Write -Down:  MAX(0, NOL Balance – 
Allowable Annual Usage 
* # Years Until 
Expiration)  100%  
Write -Down of NOL 
Portion of DTA:  MAX(0, NOL Portion – 
Allowable Annual Usage 
* Buyer’s Tax Rate * # 
Years Until Expiration)  100%  
Most Common 
Sellers : Public companies and 
large private companies  Private companies, divested divisions , 
and distressed public companies  
Favored By:  Sellers  Buyers  Both  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Net Operating Losses (NOLs) in Different Deal Structures  
We summarized the treatment of the Seller’s NOLs in the table on the previous page , but it’s 
worth explaining it in more detail with a few sample numbers . 
In Asset Purchases and 338(h)(10) deals, the Seller’s NOLs are written down 100% and cannot 
be used post -transaction. I n Stock Purchases, the Buyer can use some  of the Seller’s NOLs 
each year, but it may have to write down a portion of the total balance.  
Let’s say the Seller has $100 million in off -Balance Sheet NOLs, which are represented as $25 
million within its Deferred Tax Asset since it has a 25% tax rate.  
The Buyer pays an Equity Purchase Price of $1 billion for the Seller.  
In an Asset Purchase or 338(h)(10) deal, the Buyer writes down the $25 million of NOLs within 
the DTA and the entire $100 million off -Balance Sheet number, and it cannot use any of the 
NOLs in the future.  
But this full write -down does not  happen in a Stock Purchase , and the Buyer can use a limited 
amount of NOLs annually.  
For U.S. -based Buyers, the allowable usage is calculated as  follows : 
• Allowable Annual NOL Usage  = Equity Purchase Price * Highest of Past 3 Months' 
Adjusted Long -Term Rates  
The rules vary in different countries ; in some cases, there is no limit or a much higher annual 
limit, but the NOLs themselves may also expire more quickly (or not at all).  
These “Adjusted Long -Term Rates” are linked  to the prevailing yields on government bonds in 
the Buyer’s country (i.e., the Risk -Free Rate).  
If the past three  months had “Adjusted Long -Term Rates” of 1.2%, 1.0%, and 1.5%, the Buyer 
could use a maximum of $1 billion * 1.5% = $15 million in NOLs each year.  
Therefore , the Buyer could use the Seller’s entire $100 million NOL balance over ~7 years to 
reduce its Cash Taxes  each year . 
Therefore, if these NOLs do not expire or expire after  7 years, no write -down is required 
because the Buyer can use the full balance before that happens.  
As the Buyer uses these NOLs, the off -Balance Sheet figure will decline by $15 million per year , 
and the portion within the DTA will decline by $15 million * 25% = $3.75 million per year.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
However,  if these NOLs were set to expire in 3 years , the Buyer could not  use the entire 
balance.  
In that case, the Buyer could use only $45 million of the NOLs, corresponding  to $11.25 million 
of the DTA balance.  
So, the Buyer, in the initial transaction, would have to write down $55 million of the off -
Balance Sheet  NOL balance and $13.75 million of the DTA balance.  
After that initial write -down, the off -Balance Sheet NOLs would decrease by $15 million per 
year , and the DTA would decrease by $3.75 million per year.  
Here’s an example of how the Taxable Income and Cash Taxes differ  in a Stock vs. Asset or 
338(h)(10) deal:  
Stock Purchase – Book vs. Cash Taxes  Asset / 338(h)(10) Purchase – Book vs. Cash Taxes  
  
In this example, the ending Cash balance is higher in the Asset or 338(h)(10) deal because the 
Buyer can deduct the new D&A for cash- tax purposes.  
The Seller’s NOLs are written down, which hurts the Buyer , but the tax advantages of the D&A 
treatment outweigh this loss . 
If the Seller has a huge NOL balance, a Stock Purchase might be superior , but if the NOL 
balance is small  or non -existent, an Asset Purchase or 338(h)(10) e lection might offer more 
benefits for the Buyer.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The exact structure rarely makes a big difference in a merger model unless the deal parameters 
are unusual (e.g., the Seller has a massive amount of NOLs,  or the Seller’s Assets are written up 
by huge percentage s). 
But it’s still good to be familiar with these deal structures because they come up in more 
advanced interviews and on the job.  
Return to Top . 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
It is unlikely that you will get questions about these more advanced M&A concepts in 
interviews.  
However, if you’ve had significant work experience or presented a full list of M&A deals on your 
resume/CV, these more advanced questions have a higher probability of coming up.  
 
Quarterly Models, Variable Close Dates, and Stub Periods  
Questions about “timing differences” are much more likely to come up in the context of deal 
discussions  around the models and technical work you completed, but interviewers could still 
quiz you on the basics in standalone questions.  
 
1. How does a quarterly merger model differ from an annual one? Does it add any value?  
Most of the differences concern the financial projections for the Buyer and Seller; in a quarterly 
model, you use Y ear-Over-Year (YoY) growth rates for revenue and expenses, you use LTM 
Income Statement figures to forecast the Balance Sheet, and you use quarterly versions of the 
interest rates and repayment terms for Debt. Annual summaries and roll- ups are also common.  
In the merger model itself, you often allow the deal to close on different quarterly end dates so 
you can compare the accretion/dilution in different scenarios.  
Quarterly merger models are most useful when there’s significant uncertainty around the deal’s 
close date , and at least one company change s significantly over time. Outside of that, the 
added precision does not necessarily justify the extra time and effort required.  
 
2. Suppose you have built a quarterly merger model with a variable close date. The “baseline” 
close date is currently Quarter 2 of Year 1. If the deal closes later, such as in Quarter 2 of Year 
2, how would the EPS accretion/dilution change?  
It depends on how the Buyer and Seller’s financial profiles change over this period. If their Cash 
balances are higher and their Debt balances are lower, the deal is likely to be more accretive 
because it means they can use more Cash and Debt to fund the deal, which is  usually cheaper 
than Stock . 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On the other hand, if these balances move in the wrong direction  due to higher burn rates or 
reduced cash flows, a later close date  would be more dilutive  because it means the Stock 
component will be greater.  
 
3. Is that answer complete? Can you  answer this question based on Excel and the financial 
statements? What else factors in?  
The previous answer is all you can say based on the financial statements and the Excel model . 
However, in real life, the other major factor is that the Buyer and Seller’s share prices often 
change significantly after the deal is announced, and these movements also affect the 
accretion/dilution if the deal has a Stock component.  
If the Buyer’s share price increases, any deal with a Stock component become s more accretive, 
while the opposite happens if its share price decreases ( though this varies based on how the 
Exchange Ratio is set, possible collars, etc.).  
 
4. What are the main "cases" when combining the Buyer and Seller’s financial statements in a 
merger model with variable close dates? The main cases on the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement  are “pre -transaction” and 
“post -transaction.” The pre -transaction numbers are only the Buyer’s, while the post -
transaction ones include the Buyer + Seller’s numbers and all the acquisition effects , adjusted 
based on the periods (monthly vs. quarterly vs. annual) and the possible close date.  
On the Balance Sheet, there’s also the “close date” case, which is different since the Balance 
Sheet suddenly changes to reflect the Cash, Debt, and Stock used in the deal, the new Goodwill, 
the new DTL, the asset write -ups, and so on.  
The Balance Sheet is trickier than the other statements because many of the line items require 
different formulas in the post- transaction period; for example, the Working Capital lines are 
simple combinations of  the Buyer and Seller, but items such as Net PP&E and Debt flow in from 
the Combined Cash Flow Statement.  
 
5. What would change in a merger model if the deal closed on an irregular date, such as 
August 15
th? 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
You would “roll forward” the Balance Sheets for both companies to August 15th and combine 
them on that date, ensuring that the Purchase Price Allocation and Sources & Uses schedules 
are also based  on that date.  
You would also create “stub periods ” for the Combined Income Statement and Cash Flow 
Statement to show what happens between the most recent period before  August 15th and 
August 15th and what happens between August 15th and the next  quarter (or year) after that.  
In the merger model, you would combine the statements starting in this second stub period 
(August 15th to the end of the next quarter /year ), but you would still focus on the first full year 
of combined results  because EPS accretion/dilution is more meaningful over a full year.  
Return to Top . 
 
Exchange Ratios and Collars  
Questions about these topics are often conceptual, but it’s possible to receive a few “mental 
math” questions about the impact of Exchange Ratios and collars on the shares issued in a deal 
and the EPS accretion/dilution.  
 
1. What's the difference between Fixed and Floating Exchange Ratios, and which do Buyers 
prefer?  
With a Fixed Exchange Ratio, the Seller receives a constant number of shares  regardless of the 
Buyer’s share price . For example, the Buyer might agree to issue two new shares for each of the 
Seller’s shares. The Seller’s ownership in the combined company stay s the same  as the Buyer’s 
share price  changes , but its purchase price will change.  
With a Floating Exchange Ratio, the Seller receives a fixed purchase price but a variable number 
of shares. For example, the Buyer might agree to pay $200 million to  the Seller, but that means 
10 million shares if the Buyer’s share price is $20.00 and 40 million shares if the Buyer’s share 
price is $5.00.  
Buyers care the most about avoiding dilution in M&A deals, so they tend to favor the Fixed 
Exchange Ratio if they’re not confident of their current/future share price . If the Buyer is 
reasonably confident that its share price will rise, it might favor a Floating Exchange Ratio so 
that it issues fewer shares.  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
2. Why might a Buyer and Seller agr ee to a collar in a 100% Stock deal?  
100% Stock deals present risk for both Buyers and Sellers: The Buyer could dilute its 
shareholders by a huge amount if its share price falls, while the Seller could receive fewer 
shares than expected if the Buyer’s share price rises.  
A collar  allows for a compromise and reduce s the risks by establishing a Fixed Exchange Ratio 
within a certain range of Buyer share price, with Floating Exchange Ratios outside that region. It might also be set up in the opposite way, with a Floating Exchange Ratio in a certain range and Fixed Exchan ge Ratios outside that range.  
Sellers can be assured of receiving a fixed purchase price or a fixed number of shares within a range of share prices for the Buyer, while Buyers can limit either the dilution or the effective purchase price.  
 
3. What are example terms for a Fixed Exchange Ratio with a c ollar  in an M&A deal ? 
This structure means that the Seller gets a fixed number of shares within a certain share price 
range for the Buyer . 
So, the purchase price will vary within that range, and above or below that range, the purchase 
price is fixed, but the shares issued will vary . For example:  
• Buyer’s Share Price Between $50.00 and $60.00:  The Seller always gets 10 million of the 
Buyer’s shares  ($500 to $600 million purchase price).  
 
• Buyer’s Share Price Above $60.00:  The Seller always gets a $600 million  purchase price , 
but the shares issued vary based on the Buyer’s share price.  
 
• Buyer’s  Share Price Below $50.00:  The Seller always gets a $500 million  purchase price , 
but the shares issued vary based on the Buyer’s share price.  
 
4. How does EPS accretion/dilution change with a Fixed vs. Floating Exchange Ratio? What if 
there’s a collar?  
A Fixed Exchange Ratio does not impact  the accretion/dilution because the shares issued by the 
Buyer are constant regardless of its share price. But with a Floating Exchange Ratio, the shares 
issued change as the Buyer’s share price changes , so the deal will become more accretive as the 
Buyer’s share price increases and more dilutive as it falls.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
With a collar, the EPS accretion/dilution change s over only specific ranges  of the Buyer’s share 
price. So, it might vary between $50.00 and $70.00 per share but remain constant below $50.00 
and above $70.00 if the Exchange Ratio is Fixed in those ranges (for example).  
 
5. Suppose that a Buyer plans to pay $500 million for a Seller using  100% Stock. Its current 
share price is $50.00, so it will issue 10 million shares to do the deal.  
If the deal is based on a Floating Exchange Ratio between $40.00 and $60.00 with a collar 
outside those levels, what are the minimum and maximum purchase prices and shares 
issued?  
There are no  minimum or maximum purchase prices when there’s a Floating Exchange Ratio 
with a collar; the shares issued  are capped above  $60.00 and below $40.00, but the purchase 
price keeps changing.  
The purchase price here will be $500 million if  the Buyer’s share price stays between $40.00 
and $60.00; if it goes outside that range, the purchase price will change.  
The shares issued will be between $500 million / $60.00 = 8.33 million and $500 million / 
$40.00 = 12.5 million. These numbers represent the minimum and maximum number of shares 
issued due to this collar structure . 
 
6. When is a collar most and least useful?  
A collar is most useful  in a 100% Stock deal when the Seller is moderately sized relative to the 
Buyer (e.g., 1 / 4 or 1 / 3 of its size), the parties want to compromise and reduce their risk, and 
there’s disagreement about the Buyer’s share price or prospects.  Any deal expected to take 12+ 
months to close may also benefit from a collar due to the risk of share price  volatility  before the 
close.  
A collar is least useful  when most of these conditions are not true (e.g., there’s little risk of 
share price volatility or the Buyer is 100x bigger than the Seller).  
Return to Top . 
 
Stock vs. Asset vs. 338(h)(10) Deals and NOLs 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
These questions start to border on “obscure,” but they may come up in more advanced 
interviews with M&A groups, especially in the U.S.  
 
1. Why do Buyers tend to prefer Asset Purchases , while Sellers tend to prefer Stock 
Purchases ? 
In Asset Purchases, Buyers can pick and choose the exact Assets they want to acquire and the 
exact Liabilities they want to assume, which reduces the transaction risk.  
Buyers can also deduct D&A on Asset Write -Ups for cash -tax purposes in an Asset Purchase, 
which reduces their tax burden after the deal closes.  
Sellers tend to prefer Stock Purchases because Asset Purchases leave them with more risk after 
deals close and because they must pay taxes based on the purchase price PLUS the Gains 
recorded on their Net Assets in an Asset Purchase.  
 
2. What's the advantage of a 338(h)(10) election for a U.S. -based Buyer?  
In a 338(h)(10) Election, the Buyer and Seller treat a Stock Purchase as an Asset Purchase for tax 
purposes.  
So, the Buyer still acquires all the Assets, Liabilities, and off -Balance Sheet items of the Seller, 
but it can  also deduct D&A on Asset Write -Ups for cash -tax purposes.  
The Seller’s entire NOL balance is also written down (as in a standard Asset Purchase).  
338(h)(10) deals can help Buyers and Sellers compromise and reach an agreement more quickly 
since they combine the elements favored by Buyers in Asset Purchases and Sellers in Stock 
Purchases.  
 
3. If a Seller has a massive NOL balance, should the Buyer use a Stock Purchase, Asset 
Purchase, or 338(h)(10) election to acquire it?  
The Buyer should use a Stock Purchase because NOLs are written down 100% in Asset Purchase  
and 338(h)(10) deals,  so the Buyer cannot use the Seller’s NOLs in those deal structures.  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
25 of 25 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
4. Walk me through what happens in a Stock Purchase deal where the Buyer pays an Equity 
Purchase Price of $2 billion for the Seller, and the Seller has an off -Balance Sheet NOL balance 
of $400 million. The NOLs expire in 5 years.  
Assume that the Long -Term Adjusted Rates for the past three  months were 0.5%, 0.7%, and 
1.0%  and that the Buyer’s Tax Rate is 25%.  
If the off -BS NOL balance is $400 million, the portion within the DTA should be approximately  
$100 million at a 25% tax rate.  
The Buyer can use MAX(0.5%, 0.7%, 1.0%) * $2 billion, or $20 million, of NOLs per year.  
The NOLs expire in 5 years, which means the Buyer can use 5 * $20 million = $100 million total.  
Therefore, the Buyer will write down $300 million of the off -BS NOLs and $75 million of the 
NOLs within the DTA when the transaction closes.  
The remaining off -BS NOL balance will be $100 million, and the NOL portion within the DTA will 
be $25 million.  
After the deal closes , the Buyer will use $20 million of the NOLs each year to reduce its cash -
taxable income, so  the off- BS balance will decline by $20 million per year . 
The DTA portion will decline by $5 million per year until both the on- BS and off- BS NOL 
balances reach $0 at the end of Year 5.  
 
5. How do these numbers change in an Asset Purchase?  
In an Asset Purchase, the Seller’s Net Operating Losses –  both the off- Balance Sheet and on -
Balance Sheet versions –  are written down to $0, and the Buyer can’t use any of the Seller’s 
NOLs. 
Return to Top . 