 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
1 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Spinoff Model Guide  
Table of Contents:  
Overview of Spinoff Models  ............................................................................................... 1 
Spinoff Motivations  ......................................................................................................... 2 
Spinoff Transaction Assumptions  ................................................................................... 3 
Balance Sheet Adjustments  ..................................................................................................... 5 
Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value and Enterprise Value  ....................................................... 7 
Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement Adjustments  ........................................... 8 
Supplemental Schedules  ............................................................................................... 11 
Debt & Equity Schedule  ......................................................................................................... 12 
Tax Schedules  ......................................................................................................................... 13 
Balance Sheet Forecasts  ............................................................................................... 14 
Valuation  ....................................................................................................................... 16 
Sum- of-the-Parts Analysis  ............................................................................................. 19 
Interview Questions  .......................................................................................................... 21 
Motivations and Transaction Assumptions  .................................................................. 21 
Financial Statement Adjustments  ................................................................................. 23 
Spinoff Valuation ........................................................................................................... 25 
 
Overview of Spinoff Models  
This guide covers spinoff models  as they are presented in the SunPower / Maxeon case study in 
this course. The model in that case study is complex and required several weeks to build , so we 
will not walk through every single detail here.  
Instead, this guide will summarize the key points, explain the motivations for spinoffs, and 
describe how a spinoff financial model can indicate the potential upside and risk factors in such 
a transaction.  
 
  
 
 
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
2 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Spinoff Motivations  
While standard M&A deals are typically about EPS accretion/dilution and the expected IRR, 
spinoffs are motivated primarily by valuation. 
In a spinoff, the Parent Company creates a new public entity 
for one of its divisions (the “Spun -Off Company”) and 
distributes shares in the entity to its existing shareholders.  
There are other variations, such as split -offs (shareholders  
must choose between shares in the new company and 
retaining shares in the Parent) and carve -outs  (the Parent 
sells the shares in the subsidiary via an IPO).  
There are  also divestitures , whereby a P arent Company sells a specific division to another 
company or a financial sponsor.  
Spinoffs  differ from these transactions in a few ways:  
1. They are tax -free if the Parent Company structures the deal so  that it gives up ~80% of 
its voting and non- voting shares in the subsidiary  (this is the requirement in the U.S., but 
the numbers vary by country).  
 
2. They allow the existing shareholders to “double dip”  by retaining their shares in the 
Parent while also getting shares in the new Spun -Off Company . 
Most Parent Companies pursue spinoffs  because they believe they are undervalued and would 
be worth a higher total value  as separate firms.  
For example, the logic in this SunPower / Maxeon deal was as follows:  
• Current Valuation:  The company, a combined solar installer and manufacturer, traded 
at ~1x R evenue for an Enterprise Value of ~$1.7 billion.  
 
• Comparable Companies:  Pure -play solar service companies traded at 5 –  6x revenue, 
while pure -play solar manufacturing companies traded at ~1x revenue.  
 
• Separate Valuation:  Therefore, the company’s manufacturing arm, responsible for ~2/3 
of its revenue, might trade at 1x R evenue for a TEV of $1.2 billion, while its 
service/installation business might trade at 5 – 6x revenue for a TEV of $3.3 –  $4.0 
billion.  As separate entities, the company might now be worth ~3x its old value.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
3 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The results would probably not  be this favorable in real life because there’s no guarantee that 
each division would trade at these multiples , especially given the limited sets of comparable 
companies . 
Also, we must adjust each company’s financials for additional corporate overhead  and “dis-
synergies,” and these factors will reduce the total value.  
If the Parent Company continually raises capital to fund this subsidiary, that complicates the 
analysis because we must factor in capital structure differences and post -transaction funding 
requirements.  
Return to Top . 
 
Spinoff Transaction Assumptions  
Before building any spinoff model, you need separate projections  for the Parent and S ubsidiary 
Company.  These should ideally be 3 -statement projections, but “cash flow only” projections 
also work if you’re in a time crunch.  
The SunPower / Maxeon case study has a 3 -statement model for each company , but we are not 
covering them here because there’s nothing specific  to spinoffs in these models.  
Once you have these projections, the next step is to make assumptions for the Distribution 
Ratio and the Proposed Share Price for the Spun -Off Company.  
The Distribution Ratio  is the number of Spun- Off Company shares  created for each  Parent Co. 
share.  
For example, if the Parent has 100 shares  and the Distribution Ratio is 5, the Spun- Off Company 
will have 500 shares. Shareholders will get 5 Spun -Off Co. shares per Parent share.  
In this deal, each SunPower shareholder will receive 1 Maxeon share for every 8 SunPower 
shares, which is a 0.1250x Distribution Ratio. 
SunPower has set Maxeon’s initial share price to $32.40, which implies the following share 
count, Distribution Value, and Equity Value:  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
4 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
This deal is unusual because another company, TZS, is also investing $298 million , giving it ~29% 
ownership and increasing  the share count  and Equity Value.  
It’s most likely doing this because it needs additional funding  as an independent entity, as it’s 
currently cash -flow -negative . Maxeon also raises a $100 million Revolver with a $10 million 
draw and a $200 million Convertible Bond.  
Other borrowing facilities and expenses must be repaid when the deal closes, so we can use 
this information to calculate Maxeon’s Cash balance : 
 
If Maxeon has Excess Cash after all these adjustments, it must pay this amount to SunPower. If 
it’s negative, SunPower must instead pay this amount to Maxeon to bring its Cash up to the $50 
million minimum level.  
This setup is uncommon but may happen when the Parent explicitly funds the Subsidiary.  
Return to Top . 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
5 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Balance Sheet Adjustments  
In the next step, you adjust each company’s  Balance Sheet based on the changes in Cash, Debt, 
and Equity in the deal and the Assets and Liabilities that go to each entity.  
Unfortunately, there’s no 
universal “rule” for doing this 
because the transferred Assets 
and Liabilities vary in each 
deal; you need to find the 
filings that disclose all the 
transfers and inter -company 
adjustments.  
Maxeon’s Balance Sheet is 
easier to adjust because we can 
follow the Cash and Debt 
calculations in the previous 
section and the transferred 
Assets and Liabilities from the 
filings.  
The Equity Adjustment equals 
the Total Asset Adjustments 
minus the Total Liability 
Adjustments,  plus the $298 
million TZS Investment , plus the 
$52 million Equity component 
of the Convertible Bond raised 
in the deal.  
Note that under U.S. GAAP, 
Convertible Bonds are rarely split into separate Debt and Equity components anymore, so this 
last adjustment is unlikely to apply to most deals (and even the TZS investment is unusual and 
not a standard spinoff feature).  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
6 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
On SunPower’s Balance 
Sheet, we remove Maxeon’s 
Assets and Liabilities  and 
reflect several additional 
adjustments the company 
disclose d in the filings.  
For example, if Maxeon has 
$20 million in AR,  we credit  
SunPower’s AR  for this $20 
million , i.e., we subtract it.  
The Equity Adjustments  
differ  slightly for the P arent . 
The net amount of all the 
“smaller” Asset and Liability 
adjustments still factors in, 
but we also debit (subtract) 
Maxeon’s Common 
Shareholders’ Equity . 
However, we do NOT factor 
in the Assets and Liabilities 
that go to Maxeon! The 
“Credit” adjustments on the 
Assets side and the “Debit” 
adjustments on the L&E 
side do not factor in.  
This may seem counterintuitive, but the reasoning is simple: Maxeon’s Balance Sheet should 
already  be in balance, so removing all its Assets, Liabilities, and Equity from SunPower’s Balance 
Sheet should not cause the SPWR Balance Sheet to go out of balance.  
Therefore, we care only  about the additional adjustments beyond these , as these are the ones 
that might cause SunPower’s Balance Sheet to go out of balance.  
Beyond the smaller  items listed in the filings, the Cash that SunPower pays to Maxeon, the 
financing proceeds, and the reimbursed transaction expenses also factor in.  
Return to Top . 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
7 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value and Enterprise Value  
Next, you calculate each company's Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value and Enterprise Value  
because these are required inputs for the valuation and other schedules.  
It’s best to start with the Spun -Off Company’s numbers  because you should already have its 
Equity Value from the first step in this process with the D istribution Ratio. 
In the bridge, you factor in all the normal items on its most recent Balance Sheet , but you also 
include  the transaction adjustments from the previous section . 
Some of these items, such as the NOLs, are more complex to adjust and may require 
recalculation s based on the Valuation Allowances and the new Tax Rate (if applicable) . 
The Debt might not come from the Balance Sheet at all, depending on the new issuances and 
the repayment/refinancing of existing issuances  in the deal:  
SunPower’s adjustments have one major difference: Its Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value 
equals its Current Equity Value  minus Maxeon’s assumed ~$720 million Distribution Value.  
In other words, we assume  that SunPower’s Equity Value will fall  by Maxeon’s “Distribution 
Value” before the TZS investment.  
Obviously, this assumption contradicts the basic rationale of this deal: SunPower should trade 
at higher multiples  as a separate, pure -play entity focused on solar services.  
However, this assumption is in place strictly for accounting purposes . We’re saying that its 
Equity should be worth less “on paper” after the deal closes, but in the market , its share price 
will rise significantly once it starts to trade at a higher multiple.  
The approach with the bridge items is similar; it’s still based on the most recent Balance Sheet 
before  the deal plus the transaction adjustments for each item:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
8 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
Return to Top . 
 
Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement Adjustments  
We’ll start with adjustments to the P arent’s financial statements  because some will flow 
through to the Spun- Off Company (Maxeon) statements . Here’s a summary:  
• Revenue and Expenses:  Remove and reallocate all the Spun -Off Company’s line items, 
including interest income and expense, D&A, NCI and Equity Investment lines, etc.  
 
• Funding Sources:  If the P arent has been funding the Spun-Off Company, reverse the 
additional interest expense and shares from this funding.  
 
• Taxes:  Recalculate the P arent Company’s taxes based on its standalone effective tax 
rate.  
 
• Cash Flow  Statement:  Remove all the line items related to the S pun- Off Company’s 
financials (the Change in Working Capital lines, CapEx, etc.). Also, remove all Debt and 
Equity issuances made specifically to fund  the Spun-Off Company.  
 
• EPS Accretion / Dilution:  You calculate this in a spinoff based on the Net Income and 
Share Count after these changes, but it’s not particularly insightful because there’s no 
“price paid” or “proceeds received. ” So, it mostly just tells you whether the Spun-Off 
Company ha s higher or lower margins than the Parent.  
Here are the highlights from these adjustments , with the more  noteworthy items circled in red:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
9 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
10 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Many adjustments , such as the reallocated D&A and corporate overhead, flow through to 
Maxeon’s statements.  
Also, the $50 – $175 million in annual funding that Maxeon was projected to receive from 
SunPower now goes away since they become separate entities.  
There may also be dis-synergies  after the deal closes because the companies may have to 
spend more on functions such as IT, HR, and accounting.  
These dis -synergies are the opposite  of normal synergies in a merger model. They appear after 
spinoffs because it generally costs more for two smaller companies to operate separately  than 
to operate together as one larger entity:  
 
Many of these lines are blank because we have not yet completed  the required supplemental 
schedules ( see the next section).  It’s impossible  to calculate the Interest Expense on the New 
Debt until we know how much Maxeon draws on in each period, for example.  
The Tax Rate  is slightly lower because Maxeon is relocating its headquarters to Singapore in this 
deal, so it falls to ~20%.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
11 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
We do NOT calculate EPS accretion/dilution for the S pun- Off Company because it doesn’t 
make sense –  as it never had a separate share count or EPS pre -transaction.  
As a direct  result of this deal and the loss in funding from SunPower , Maxeon’s Cash balance 
turns negative, so it will need additional funding post- transaction : 
 
Return to Top . 
 
Supplemental Schedules  
After a spinoff, adjusting the financial statements and reallocating line items may not be 
enough.  
One big issue  is that the companies’ financing plans and capital structures might change , 
which creates the need for new/revised Debt & Equity schedules.  
Also, each company’s tax situation might change because the Deferred Tax Assets and 
Liabilities and Valuation Allowances might change, and items such as Stock -Based 
Compensation and the Amortization of Intangible Assets could be shifted around . 
We’ll walk through the supplemental schedules for the capital structure and tax differences in 
this section.  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
12 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Debt & Equity Schedule  
Post -deal financing is mostly an issue for the S pun- Off Company  because it might not receive 
funding from the Parent anymore.  The basic mechanics are simple : 
1. Determine if the company needs additional funding in the period based on its pre -
financing cash flows, Beginning Cash, and Minimum Cash.  
 
2. If it does not , assume it uses its excess cash flow to repay its existing Debt, such as the 
Revolver. 
 
3. If it does , draw on the Debt  first because it tends to be the cheapest financing source.  
 
4. Once the Debt Draw is maxed out, switch to Equity funding for any additional needs.  
 
5. Calculate the Interest Expense , Fees , and A mortization (if applicable) on the additional 
Debt issuances ; increase the Share Count  by the additional shares issued.  
Here’s the schedule for Maxeon in the baseline scenario, with a few notes below:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
13 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Amortization of the Convertible Bond Discount  is unrelated to the company’s ongoing 
funding needs; it’s there because of the Convertible Bond Maxeon raised in the spinoff. It’s also 
more common under IFRS now (the accounting rules changed after this deal , and most U.S. 
companies no longer split Convertibles into Debt and Equity components ). 
The Revolver has a Maximum Draw of $100 million, so Equity must fund anything beyond that. 
This assumption is a bit questionable because the company could easily afford more Debt 
funding via a Term Loan or another Convertible Bond, both of which would be cheaper than 
traditional Equity (see the case presentation).  
Return to Top . 
 
Tax Schedules  
There are no real mechanical differences in the Tax Schedules.  
The differences all relate to the “starting assumptions”: Most of the NOL  balance gets 
reallocated from SunPower to Maxeon, and some of the Amortization of Intangibles and Stock -
Based Compensation are also reallocated.  
As a result, SunPower uses up its now- smaller NOL balance as it becomes profitable  early on , 
while Maxeon’s NOL balance builds up until it finally turns a profit in the final year:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
14 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The same types of items are still not cash -tax-deductible (Amortization, SBC, Asset 
Impairments, etc.); other than that, the changes in the Interest Expense and the reallocation of 
Maxeon’s revenue and expenses make the biggest difference.  
Once you have finished these supplemental schedules, you can link all the line items on the 
separate financial statement projections. After these changes , Maxeon maintains its $50 million 
Minimum Cash since it raises enough Debt and Equity to keep its Cash at that level:  
 
Return to Top . 
 
Balance Sheet Forecast s 
Even with these supplemental schedules, additional links, and Income Statement and Cash Flow 
Statement adjustments, one problem remains : We do not yet have Balance Sheet projections  
for the companies – only the immediate post -transaction Balance Sheets. 
In theory, we could skip this process of forecasting the companies’ separate Balance Sheets 
because it doesn’t factor into the valuations directly; we just need cash -flow forecasts and sets 
of comparable companies.  
However, lenders and investors might request the Balance Sheet forecasts, and they do factor 
into certain credit stats and ratios, such as Debt / Total Capital and Debt / Equity.  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
15 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The most important point is to approach the Balance Sheet projections as you would in a 
traditional 3 -statement model, linking to the previous version of each item plus/minus its 
corresponding changes on the Cash Flow Statement –  but to also do that for the short- term 
operational items , such as Accounts Receivable and Inventory!  
In a normal 3-statement model,  you forecast these line items directly on the Balance Sheet by 
making them percentages of Income Statement lines , such as Revenue, COGS, and Operating 
Expenses. Then, you reflect the changes  in these items on the Cash Flow Statement.  
In a spinoff analysis , however, you should have already  subtracted the Spun-Off Company’s 
contributions within the Change in Working Capital section on the Parent’s CFS.  
Since you already have the “change” in each line item, it’s easier to make the number in the 
current period equal the previous number plus/minus this corresponding change on the CFS . 
Here’s an example from SunPower’s projections:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
16 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
One final point here is that you must reflect all new items  and new adjustments  appropriately 
as well.  
For example, with Common Shareholders’ Equity, yes, Net Income, SBC, Stock Issuances, and FX 
Rate Effects all flow in from the Cash Flow Statement…  
…but so does the R emoval of the Stock Issuances  to fund Maxeon since Maxeon is now a 
separate entity. Therefore, CSE increases by much less over time . 
Maxeon follows the same patterns , and the same types of new items and adjustments must be 
reflected on its statements: T he “canceled  out” Parent funding, the new Convertible Bond  
amortization , the Revolver Draws, the additional Equity issuances , etc.  
Return to Top . 
 
Valuation  
Once you have the separate financial statement projections for the P arent (SunPower) and the 
Spun-Off Company (Maxeon), you can value  each entity.  
This is the whole point of a spinoff: To increase the Parent’s per- share value because the 
companies are worth more as separate entities than they are together.  
Little in this process is specific to spinoffs ; you still pick comparable public companies (Public 
Comps) based on financial /industry /geographic criteria, and you still build DCF analyses based 
on Unlevered FCF . 
In many cases, you skip  the Precedent Transactions because they’re less relevant when valuing 
new standalone public companies.  
A few other points worth noting are as follows:  
1. Spun- Off Company  – All the financials in the Public Comps and DCF should be based on 
Spun -Off Co’s separate numbers after dis -synergies and all the other adjustments . You 
should use the Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value and Enterprise Value and all the 
bridge items from this calculation. There is no “historical Beta” for the Cost of Equity 
and WACC calculations, so use the re -levered Beta from the Public Comps.  
 
2. Parent Company  – Use the Parent’s Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value and Enterprise 
Value and its financials after  removing Spun -Off Co’s numbers, reallocating  corporate 
overhead, etc. You can use the historical Beta here because this Parent Company has a 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
17 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
stock -price history, but you normally use a Cost of Equity average that includes the peer 
companies’ performance as well.  
Avoid obsessing over minutiae with the valuation, such as which specific adjustment to use in 
which spot, and focus  on the big picture:  
 
If the spinoff is a great idea because the companies are dramatically undervalued, it should 
be obvious to a 5 -year -old child, as shown above. The deal is a bad idea if someone needs a 
Ph.D. to understand the math.  
The DCF analyses are also very standard: Use the separate companies’ financials, make sure 
your share counts are correct (the Spun- Off Company’s should be based on the Distribution 
Ratio and any additional equity investments in the deal, while the Parent’s should remain the 
same), and make reasonable long -term forecasts for Unlevered FCF.  
The specific DCFs used here are a bit different due to the nature of these companies  – heavy 
operating losses in the early years before reaching profitability –  but that’s an issue with the 
solar manufacturing industry and not something specific to spinoffs.  
Because of these heavy losses, we forecast the Cash Taxes directly based on the NOL creation 
and usage, as shown below:  

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
18 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
As a result of this NOL treatment, we also needed to include them in the Implied Enterprise 
Value calculation s if an NOL balance remain ed at the end of this 15 -year DCF:  
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
19 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The results are unsurprising: Maxeon is valued appropriately according to the Public Comps and 
DCF, while SunPower seems wildly undervalued.  
Return to Top . 
 
Sum -of-the-Parts Analysis  
If you already have the separate projections and valuations for the Parent Company and Spun -
Off Company, the Sum -of-the-Parts Analysis should be simple… in theory.  
In reality, it’s tricky because you must make judgment calls about which multiples  to use, which 
ranges  of the DCF valuations to use, and so on.  
In this analysis, we focus on the revenue multiples  and use the DCF output  to “sanity check” 
the multiples. The first step is to link in the Implied Enterprise Value s: 
 
 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
20 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Then, we add both “Blended Average” TEVs and adjust for corporate overhead to get the 
Combined Enterprise Value . Then, we factor in the original company’s  bridge items to get the 
Combined Equity Value.  
Finally, we divide by the combined share count  to get the range of Implied Share Prices.  
The annotated screenshot below lays out the process more clearly:  
 
If you get one of these adjustments wrong, it’s not the end of the world because the se 
companies are dramatically undervalued no matter what you do.  
As part of this exercise, we also value Total SE’s ~52% stake in SunPower and ~35% Stake in 
Maxeon based on their Implied Equity Values and determine that these stakes would be worth 
far more after the spinoff.  
Return to Top . 

 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
21 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
Interview Questions  
You stand a better chance of being struck by lightning than getting detailed questions about 
spinoff deals in interviews, so we present this section mostly so you can test your knowledge 
and review the key concepts.  
If you’ve worked on a spinoff or similar M&A deal, these topics are more likely to come up. If 
they do, the interviewer will likely focus on the conceptual questions rather than the math and 
financial statement adjustments.  
 
Motivations and Transaction Assumptions  
These questions are  the most likely ones because they do not depend on specialized analyses or 
obscure knowledge about financial statement adjustments . 
 
1. Why would a company spin off a division or business unit?  
In most cases, valuation  is the primary motivation. For example, the company believes that the 
market currently undervalues it  and that its total value would be higher as separate, pure -play 
businesses in specific industries.  
The company might also believe that the spun- off division  could achieve its performance goals 
more effectively as an independent entity.  
 
2. How are spinoffs different from carve -outs, divestiture s, and split- offs?  
In a spinoff, the Parent Company creates a new public entity for one of its subsidiaries and 
distributes shares in this new subsidiary for free  to its existing shareholders . Not only is it tax -
free in most cases, but it also lets shareholders “double dip” because they retain their shares in 
the parent while also getting shares in the Spun- Off Co . 
A split -off is similar, but the shareholders must choose  between getting shares in the Spun -Off 
Co. or retaining their shares in the P arent.  
In a carve -out, the Parent sells shares in the subsidiary by taking it public via a traditional IPO 
process, so the new company raises additional capital in the deal, and the existing shareholders 
do not get any shares for free (though they can buy shares in the IPO).  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
22 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
A divestiture  refers to the sale of a division to another company or financial sponsor, so it is not 
turned into a separate publicly traded entity.  It is more like a traditional M&A deal but with 
tweaks to the division’s financials to reflect its new profile as an independent entity.  
 
3. Why might a spinoff look more favorable on paper than in reality?  
First, there’s no guarantee that the total value of the Parent Company + Spun -Off Company will 
be higher post- transaction; the valuation multiples from pure -play companies in the industry 
might point to this outcome, but anything could happen in real life.  
For example, pure -play companies in one segment may trade at 10 –  12x EBITDA multiples, but 
the Spun- Off Company in the deal you’re analyzing trades at only 6 –  8x because it is perceived 
as riskier or lower growth . 
Also, people often fail to properly account for the additional corporate overhead and dis -
synergies  when companies separate. These additional expenses reduce cash flows and profit 
margins, and they often end up being higher than expected.  
 
4. What does the Distribution Ratio in a spinoff represent?  
The Distribution Ratio  represents the number of shares in the Spun- Off Company that 
shareholders receive for each 1 share of the Parent Company they currently own. For example, 
if it’s a 4:1 Distribution Ratio, a shareholder with 100 shares in the Parent retain s those 100 
shares and gets 400 shares in the Spun -Off Company.  
The Distribution Ratio * Parent’s Share Count * P roposed Share Price gives you the Spun -Off 
Company’s initial Equity Value after the deal takes place – but this often changes significantly as 
the market reacts . 
 5. Why might a S pun-Off Company raise  additional Debt or E quity at the time of the deal?  
This happens most frequently when the Spun -Off Company is cash flow -negative and depends 
on the Parent for funding. It won’t be able to do this post -transaction, so it often raises 
additional capital in the deal and plans to keep raising funds as needed af terward.  
 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
23 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
6. Wait a minute. If the Spun- Off Company raises additional capital in the deal, is it still a 
spinoff? Wouldn’t it be a carve -out in that case?  
No. To be a spinoff, the Parent’s shareholders must get a certain number of shares in the Spun-
Off Company for free  while retaining all their shares in the Parent. Raising additional capital 
from other investors at the time of the spinoff does not make it  a different deal type.  
It would be a carve -out only if the Parent’s shareholders did not  get Spun -Off Co shares for free 
and Spun -Off Co instead sold shares only  via the IPO process.  
Return to Top . 
 
Financial Statement Adjustments  
These questions are more technical , so they are likely to come up only if you have worked on a 
spinoff or similar deal.  
 
1. What are the main adjustments you make to each company's Balance Sheet in a spinoff?  
First, you should reflect all the transferred  Assets and Liabilities, which means most of the 
Parent Company’s numbers will  decrease (though there may be exceptions  in certain deals).  
Equity  for each company should be adjusted based on all  the adjustments to the Net Assets; for 
example, if the Spun -Off Company’s Assets are adjusted up by $100, but its Liabilities are only 
adjusted up by $40, its Equity should be adjusted up by $60 so the Balance Sheet balances.  
For the Parent Company, you should also debit  (deduct) the Spun -Off Company’s entire 
Common Shareholders’ Equity balance within Equity.  
Beyond these, you’ll also adjust for transferred /paid/received Cash, Debt, and other financing 
items and additional capital raised in the deal.  
 
2. What are the “Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value ” and “Transaction -Adjusted Enterprise 
Value ”, and why are they important in spinoffs ? 
For the Spun -Off Company, the Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value equals the Parent’s Share 
Count * Distribution Ratio * Proposed Share Price , plus adjustments for any additional Equity 
capital raised in the deal.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
24 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Transaction -Adjusted Enterprise Value equals this Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value 
plus/minus the usual items in the bridge, but you should apply the transaction -related 
adjustments to the company’s most recent Balance Sheet.  
For the Parent Company, the Transaction -Adjusted Equity Value equals its Current Equity Value 
minus the Spun -Off Company’s Distribution Value , or Parent’s Share Count * Distribution Ratio 
* Proposed Share Price  (i.e., do not include any other capital raised in the deal).  
The Transaction -Adjusted Enterprise Value is based on the normal bridge items plus the 
transaction adjustments.  
These metrics are important because the valuation multiples  for the separated companies are 
based on them, and the separate DCF analyses also use these bridge items to move from 
Implied Enterprise Value to Implied Equity Value.  
 
3. What are the most common Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement adjustments  for 
the companies involved in a spinoff?  
First, you reallocate the revenue, expenses, and cash flow line items , such as CapEx,  from one 
company to the other. The Parent’s numbers usually fall significantly if the Spun- Off Company is 
substantial.  
Second, if the Parent was funding the Spun- Off Company, you remove all the line items related 
to that, including the additional Debt and Equity funding and the additional Interest Expense 
and Shares Issued.  
Finally, you recalculate the Taxes for each company as a separate entity , which is important in 
the case of financing changes or different corporate headquarters.  
 
4. Does EPS accretion/dilution mean anything in a spinoff?  
While you can calculate EPS accretion/dilution for the Parent Company in a spinoff, it does not 
mean much and is rarely a key motivation for deals.  
The main problem is that in a spinoff, the Parent Company does not “sell” a subsidiary and 
record a Gain or Loss; instead, it separates  the Spun -Off Company’s financials and creates and 
distributes shares in this new entity.  
So, unlike in a traditional M&A deal, where you can compare the weighted average acquisition 
cost to the Target’s yield, there’s no “basis for comparison ” in a spinoff.  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
25 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
EPS accretion/dilution mostly tells you whether the Spun- Off Company had higher or lower  
margins than the Parent.  
 
5. Suppose that a S pun-Off Company needs additional funding post- transaction for its 
operations. What is the likely valuation impact?  
It depends on the valuation method. Enterprise Value -based multiples from the comparable 
companies should not produce different results because Enterprise Value is capital structure -
neutral. However, Equity Value -based multiples , like P / E , change based on the financing 
structure, and they could increase or decrease depending on the planned amounts of Debt and 
Equity and the company’s current capital structure.  
However, you will see the biggest impact in a DCF because if the company’s cash flows are 
negative , they will reduce its implied value, and if its Debt and Equity keep changing as it raises 
more capital, that will affect its WACC. You may even assume a changing WACC over the 
forecast period to reflect this.  
For example, if the company keeps issuing 100% Equity to offset its negative cash flow , its 
WACC will likely increase  because Equity is more expensive than Debt. Therefore, its implied 
value from the DCF will decrease due to this higher/rising WACC.  
Return to Top . 
 
Spinoff Valuation  
The main point of a spinoff is to achieve  a higher total valuation, so these valuation -related 
questions are more likely than those in the previous section.  
 
1. How do you value each new company  separately in a spinoff?  
The same way you value any other company: With comparable companies, precedent 
transactions, and a DCF. Y ou may place less weight on the precedent transactions or skip them 
since they’re less relevant for valuing newly formed public entities.  
Other than that, the main difference is that your forecasts must include the transaction adjustments for both companies, such as additional corporate overhead, dis -synergies, and the 
impact of additional Debt and Equity financing (if applicable ). 
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
26 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
 
2. What is the MOST LIKELY  reason why DCF -based valuations of the separate companies in a 
spinoff might produce very different results from valuations based on revenue multiples? 
The most likely reason is that simple revenue multiples do not account for changes in corporate 
overhead, dis -synergies, and outside financing, while a proper long -term DCF include s all of 
these.  
Revenue multiples capture differences in growth rates  after the spinoff, which is useful, but 
valuation is ultimately based on the long -term cash flows, so the other items are also critical.  
 
3. Walk me through a Sum -of-the-Parts valuation to assess a spinoff.  
In a Sum -of-the-Parts (SOTP) valuation, you start by valuing the standalone Parent C ompany 
and the Spun -Off Company separately via the normal methodologies . 
You then use these to establish a range of Implied Enterprise Values for each division, which 
might be based on the 25th to 75th percentile valuation multiples or a similar percentile output 
range in the DCF sensitivities.  
Then, you add these Implied Enterprise Values together, deduct the corporate overhead's 
capitalized value  (which varies widely), and factor in the normal bridge items to calculate the 
Implied Equity Value.  
Finally, you divide this by the total share count , or Parent’s Shares * (1 + Distribution Ratio ), to 
see if the Implied Share Price  for the companies as separate entities might be higher than the 
Parent’s current price.  
 
4. How does the corporate overhead adjustment work? When is it most/least useful?  
The corporate overhead adjustment is based on the additional expenses the companies as 
separate entities must spend on functions like accounting, IT, and HR . The rationale is that 
operating two smaller, independent entities usually costs more than one larger entity.  
If these adjustments are not already included in the companies’ projected financials, you should estimate the total amount of additional corporate overhead and capitalize it based on a 
valuation multiple in -line with the profitability -based multiples from the peer companies (e.g., 
10x if the median EBITDA multiple is 10x).  
 Advanced Financial Modeling Course  
 
27 of 27 https://breakingintowallstreet.com  
The Implied Equity Value then equals Parent Co. Implied Enterprise Value + Spun- Off Co. 
Implied Enterprise Value – Capitalized Value of Corporate Overhead.  
This adjustment is most important in a standard SOTP valuation when you have not  yet created 
full projections for each company as a separate entity; if you already have them, including 
additional overhead and dis -synergies, you may not even need this separate adjustment.  
 
5. Which TEV bridge items and share counts should you use in the SOTP analysis?  
The “bridge” at the end of a SOTP valuation for a spinoff should be based on the Parent 
Company’s Balance Sheet before the deal takes place  because the point of a SOTP valuation is 
to say, “What would this company be worth to shareholders today  if each division ’s Enterprise 
Value were different , but the entire company’s Balance Sheet remained the same?”  
However, even if you used the separate companies’ bridges and added them together, there 
shouldn’t be much  difference ( in theory ). 
The share count should be based on the total shares  after creating  new shares for the Spun -Off 
Company via the Distribution Ratio , i.e., Parent Share Count * (1 + Distribution Ratio).  
The rationale is that the existing shareholders can capture  this increased value only if the 
spinoff takes place and additional shares are created, so you must assume some dilutive effect to make a proper comparison.  
Return to Top . 